Tales of Mystery



The Lost Special

The confession of Herbert de Lernac, now lying under sentence of death
at Marseilles, has thrown a light upon one of the most inexplicable
crimes of the century--an incident which is, I believe, absolutely
unprecedented in the criminal annals of any country: Although there is
a reluctance to discuss the matter in official circles, and little
information has been given to the Press, there are still indications
that the statement of this arch-criminal is corroborated by the facts,
and that we have at last found a solution for a most astounding
business.  As the matter is eight years old, and as its importance was
somewhat obscured by a political crisis which was engaging the public
attention at the time, it may be as well to state the facts as far as
we have been able to ascertain them.  They are collated from the
Liverpool papers of that date, from the proceedings at the inquest upon
John Slater, the engine-driver, and from the records of the London and
West Coast Railway Company, which have been courteously put at my
disposal.  Briefly, they are as follows:

On the 3rd of June, 1890, a gentleman, who gave his name as Monsieur
Louis Caratal, desired an interview with Mr. James Bland, the
superintendent of the London and West Coast Central Station in
Liverpool.  He was a small man, middle-aged and dark, with a stoop
which was so marked that it suggested some deformity of the spine. He
was accompanied by a friend, a man of imposing physique, whose
deferential manner and constant attention showed that his position was
one of dependence.  This friend or companion, whose name did not
transpire, was certainly a foreigner, and probably from his swarthy
complexion, either a Spaniard or a South American.  One peculiarity was
observed in him.  He carried in his left hand a small black, leather
dispatch box, and it was noticed by a sharp-eyed clerk in the Central
office that this box was fastened to his wrist by a strap.  No
importance was attached to the fact at the time, but subsequent events
endowed it with some significance. Monsieur Caratal was shown up to Mr.
Bland's office, while his companion remained outside.

Monsieur Caratal's business was quickly dispatched.  He had arrived
that afternoon from Central America.  Affairs of the utmost importance
demanded that he should be in Paris without the loss of an unnecessary
hour.  He had missed the London express.  A special must be provided.
Money was of no importance.  Time was everything.  If the company would
speed him on his way, they might make their own terms.

Mr. Bland struck the electric bell, summoned Mr. Potter Hood, the
traffic manager, and had the matter arranged in five minutes. The train
would start in three-quarters of an hour.  It would take that time to
insure that the line should be clear.  The powerful engine called
Rochdale (No. 247 on the company's register) was attached to two
carriages, with a guard's van behind.  The first carriage was solely
for the purpose of decreasing the inconvenience arising from the
oscillation.  The second was divided, as usual, into four compartments,
a first-class, a first-class smoking, a second-class, and a
second-class smoking.  The first compartment, which was nearest to the
engine, was the one allotted to the travellers.  The other three were
empty.  The guard of the special train was James McPherson, who had
been some years in the service of the company.  The stoker, William
Smith, was a new hand.

Monsieur Caratal, upon leaving the superintendent's office, rejoined
his companion, and both of them manifested extreme impatience to be
off.  Having paid the money asked, which amounted to fifty pounds five
shillings, at the usual special rate of five shillings a mile, they
demanded to be shown the carriage, and at once took their seats in it,
although they were assured that the better part of an hour must elapse
before the line could be cleared.  In the meantime a singular
coincidence had occurred in the office which Monsieur Caratal had just
quitted.

A request for a special is not a very uncommon circumstance in a rich
commercial centre, but that two should be required upon the same
afternoon was most unusual.  It so happened, however, that Mr. Bland
had hardly dismissed the first traveller before a second entered with a
similar request.  This was a Mr. Horace Moore, a gentlemanly man of
military appearance, who alleged that the sudden serious illness of his
wife in London made it absolutely imperative that he should not lose an
instant in starting upon the journey.  His distress and anxiety were so
evident that Mr. Bland did all that was possible to meet his wishes.  A
second special was out of the question, as the ordinary local service
was already somewhat deranged by the first.  There was the alternative,
however, that Mr. Moore should share the expense of Monsieur Caratal's
train, and should travel in the other empty first-class compartment, if
Monsieur Caratal objected to having him in the one which he occupied.
It was difficult to see any objection to such an arrangement, and yet
Monsieur Caratal, upon the suggestion being made to him by Mr. Potter
Hood, absolutely refused to consider it for an instant.  The train was
his, he said, and he would insist upon the exclusive use of it.  All
argument failed to overcome his ungracious objections, and finally the
plan had to be abandoned. Mr. Horace Moore left the station in great
distress, after learning that his only course was to take the ordinary
slow train which leaves Liverpool at six o'clock.  At four thirty-one
exactly by the station clock the special train, containing the crippled
Monsieur Caratal and his gigantic companion, steamed out of the
Liverpool station.  The line was at that time clear, and there should
have been no stoppage before Manchester.

The trains of the London and West Coast Railway run over the lines of
another company as far as this town, which should have been reached by
the special rather before six o'clock.  At a quarter after six
considerable surprise and some consternation were caused amongst the
officials at Liverpool by the receipt of a telegram from Manchester to
say that it had not yet arrived.  An inquiry directed to St. Helens,
which is a third of the way between the two cities, elicited the
following reply--


"To James Bland, Superintendent, Central L. & W. C.,
Liverpool.--Special passed here at 4:52, well up to time.--Dowster, St.
Helens."


This telegram was received at six-forty.  At six-fifty a second message
was received from Manchester--


"No sign of special as advised by you."


And then ten minutes later a third, more bewildering--


"Presume some mistake as to proposed running of special.  Local train
from St. Helens timed to follow it has just arrived and has seen
nothing of it.  Kindly wire advices.--Manchester."


The matter was assuming a most amazing aspect, although in some
respects the last telegram was a relief to the authorities at
Liverpool.  If an accident had occurred to the special, it seemed
hardly possible that the local train could have passed down the same
line without observing it.  And yet, what was the alternative? Where
could the train be?  Had it possibly been sidetracked for some reason
in order to allow the slower train to go past?  Such an explanation was
possible if some small repair had to be effected. A telegram was
dispatched to each of the stations between St. Helens and Manchester,
and the superintendent and traffic manager waited in the utmost
suspense at the instrument for the series of replies which would enable
them to say for certain what had become of the missing train.  The
answers came back in the order of questions, which was the order of the
stations beginning at the St. Helens end--

"Special passed here five o'clock.--Collins Green."

"Special passed here six past five.--Earlstown."

"Special passed here 5:10.--Newton."

"Special passed here 5:20.--Kenyon Junction."

"No special train has passed here.--Barton Moss."

The two officials stared at each other in amazement.

"This is unique in my thirty years of experience," said Mr. Bland.

"Absolutely unprecedented and inexplicable, sir.  The special has gone
wrong between Kenyon Junction and Barton Moss."

"And yet there is no siding, so far as my memory serves me, between the
two stations.  The special must have run off the metals."

"But how could the four-fifty parliamentary pass over the same line
without observing it?"

"There's no alternative, Mr. Hood.  It must be so. Possibly the local
train may have observed something which may throw some light upon the
matter.  We will wire to Manchester for more information, and to Kenyon
Junction with instructions that the line be examined instantly as far
as Barton Moss." The answer from Manchester came within a few minutes.

"No news of missing special.  Driver and guard of slow train positive
no accident between Kenyon Junction and Barton Moss. Line quite clear,
and no sign of anything unusual.--Manchester."

"That driver and guard will have to go," said Mr. Bland, grimly.
"There has been a wreck and they have missed it.  The special has
obviously run off the metals without disturbing the line--how it could
have done so passes my comprehension--but so it must be, and we shall
have a wire from Kenyon or Barton Moss presently to say that they have
found her at the bottom of an embankment."

But Mr. Bland's prophecy was not destined to be fulfilled. Half an hour
passed, and then there arrived the following message from the
station-master of Kenyon Junction--


"There are no traces of the missing special.  It is quite certain that
she passed here, and that she did not arrive at Barton Moss.  We have
detached engine from goods train, and I have myself ridden down the
line, but all is clear, and there is no sign of any accident."


Mr. Bland tore his hair in his perplexity.

"This is rank lunacy, Hood!" he cried.  "Does a train vanish into thin
air in England in broad daylight?  The thing is preposterous.  An
engine, a tender, two carriages, a van, five human beings--and all lost
on a straight line of railway!  Unless we get something positive within
the next hour I'll take Inspector Collins, and go down myself."

And then at last something positive did occur.  It took the shape of
another telegram from Kenyon Junction.

"Regret to report that the dead body of John Slater, driver of the
special train, has just been found among the gorse bushes at a point
two and a quarter miles from the Junction.  Had fallen from his engine,
pitched down the embankment, and rolled among the bushes.  Injuries to
his head, from the fall, appear to be cause of death.  Ground has now
been carefully examined, and there is no trace of the missing train."

The country was, as has already been stated, in the throes of a
political crisis, and the attention of the public was further
distracted by the important and sensational developments in Paris,
where a huge scandal threatened to destroy the Government and to wreck
the reputations of many of the leading men in France. The papers were
full of these events, and the singular disappearance of the special
train attracted less attention than would have been the case in more
peaceful times.  The grotesque nature of the event helped to detract
from its importance, for the papers were disinclined to believe the
facts as reported to them. More than one of the London journals treated
the matter as an ingenious hoax, until the coroner's inquest upon the
unfortunate driver (an inquest which elicited nothing of importance)
convinced them of the tragedy of the incident.

Mr. Bland, accompanied by Inspector Collins, the senior detective
officer in the service of the company, went down to Kenyon Junction the
same evening, and their research lasted throughout the following day,
but was attended with purely negative results.  Not only was no trace
found of the missing train, but no conjecture could be put forward
which could possibly explain the facts.  At the same time, Inspector
Collins's official report (which lies before me as I write) served to
show that the possibilities were more numerous than might have been
expected.

"In the stretch of railway between these two points," said he, "the
country is dotted with ironworks and collieries.  Of these, some are
being worked and some have been abandoned.  There are no fewer than
twelve which have small-gauge lines which run trolly-cars down to the
main line.  These can, of course, be disregarded. Besides these,
however, there are seven which have, or have had, proper lines running
down and connecting with points to the main line, so as to convey their
produce from the mouth of the mine to the great centres of
distribution.  In every case these lines are only a few miles in
length.  Out of the seven, four belong to collieries which are worked
out, or at least to shafts which are no longer used.  These are the
Redgauntlet, Hero, Slough of Despond, and Heartsease mines, the latter
having ten years ago been one of the principal mines in Lancashire.
These four side lines may be eliminated from our inquiry, for, to
prevent possible accidents, the rails nearest to the main line have
been taken up, and there is no longer any connection.  There remain
three other side lines leading--

  (a) To the Carnstock Iron Works;
  (b) To the Big Ben Colliery;
  (c) To the Perseverance Colliery.


"Of these the Big Ben line is not more than a quarter of a mile long,
and ends at a dead wall of coal waiting removal from the mouth of the
mine.  Nothing had been seen or heard there of any special.  The
Carnstock Iron Works line was blocked all day upon the 3rd of June by
sixteen truckloads of hematite.  It is a single line, and nothing could
have passed.  As to the Perseverance line, it is a large double line,
which does a considerable traffic, for the output of the mine is very
large.  On the 3rd of June this traffic proceeded as usual; hundreds of
men including a gang of railway platelayers were working along the two
miles and a quarter which constitute the total length of the line, and
it is inconceivable that an unexpected train could have come down there
without attracting universal attention.  It may be remarked in
conclusion that this branch line is nearer to St. Helens than the point
at which the engine-driver was discovered, so that we have every reason
to believe that the train was past that point before misfortune
overtook her.

"As to John Slater, there is no clue to be gathered from his appearance
or injuries.  We can only say that, so far as we can see, he met his
end by falling off his engine, though why he fell, or what became of
the engine after his fall, is a question upon which I do not feel
qualified to offer an opinion."  In conclusion, the inspector offered
his resignation to the Board, being much nettled by an accusation of
incompetence in the London papers.

A month elapsed, during which both the police and the company
prosecuted their inquiries without the slightest success.  A reward was
offered and a pardon promised in case of crime, but they were both
unclaimed.  Every day the public opened their papers with the
conviction that so grotesque a mystery would at last be solved, but
week after week passed by, and a solution remained as far off as ever.
In broad daylight, upon a June afternoon in the most thickly inhabited
portion of England, a train with its occupants had disappeared as
completely as if some master of subtle chemistry had volatilized it
into gas.  Indeed, among the various conjectures which were put forward
in the public Press, there were some which seriously asserted that
supernatural, or, at least, preternatural, agencies had been at work,
and that the deformed Monsieur Caratal was probably a person who was
better known under a less polite name.  Others fixed upon his swarthy
companion as being the author of the mischief, but what it was exactly
which he had done could never be clearly formulated in words.

Amongst the many suggestions put forward by various newspapers or
private individuals, there were one or two which were feasible enough
to attract the attention of the public.  One which appeared in The
Times, over the signature of an amateur reasoner of some celebrity at
that date, attempted to deal with the matter in a critical and
semi-scientific manner.  An extract must suffice, although the curious
can see the whole letter in the issue of the 3rd of July.

"It is one of the elementary principles of practical reasoning," he
remarked, "that when the impossible has been eliminated the residuum,
HOWEVER IMPROBABLE, must contain the truth.  It is certain that the
train left Kenyon Junction.  It is certain that it did not reach Barton
Moss.  It is in the highest degree unlikely, but still possible, that
it may have taken one of the seven available side lines.  It is
obviously impossible for a train to run where there are no rails, and,
therefore, we may reduce our improbables to the three open lines,
namely the Carnstock Iron Works, the Big Ben, and the Perseverance.  Is
there a secret society of colliers, an English Camorra, which is
capable of destroying both train and passengers?  It is improbable, but
it is not impossible.  I confess that I am unable to suggest any other
solution.  I should certainly advise the company to direct all their
energies towards the observation of those three lines, and of the
workmen at the end of them.  A careful supervision of the pawnbrokers'
shops of the district might possibly bring some suggestive facts to
light."

The suggestion coming from a recognized authority upon such matters
created considerable interest, and a fierce opposition from those who
considered such a statement to be a preposterous libel upon an honest
and deserving set of men.  The only answer to this criticism was a
challenge to the objectors to lay any more feasible explanations before
the public.  In reply to this two others were forthcoming (Times, July
7th and 9th).  The first suggested that the train might have run off
the metals and be lying submerged in the Lancashire and Staffordshire
Canal, which runs parallel to the railway for some hundred of yards.
This suggestion was thrown out of court by the published depth of the
canal, which was entirely insufficient to conceal so large an object.
The second correspondent wrote calling attention to the bag which
appeared to be the sole luggage which the travellers had brought with
them, and suggesting that some novel explosive of immense and
pulverizing power might have been concealed in it.  The obvious
absurdity, however, of supposing that the whole train might be blown to
dust while the metals remained uninjured reduced any such explanation
to a farce.  The investigation had drifted into this hopeless position
when a new and most unexpected incident occurred.

This was nothing less than the receipt by Mrs. McPherson of a letter
from her husband, James McPherson, who had been the guard on the
missing train.  The letter, which was dated July 5th, 1890, was posted
from New York and came to hand upon July 14th.  Some doubts were
expressed as to its genuine character but Mrs. McPherson was positive
as to the writing, and the fact that it contained a remittance of a
hundred dollars in five-dollar notes was enough in itself to discount
the idea of a hoax.  No address was given in the letter, which ran in
this way:


MY DEAR WIFE,--

"I have been thinking a great deal, and I find it very hard to give you
up.  The same with Lizzie.  I try to fight against it, but it will
always come back to me.  I send you some money which will change into
twenty English pounds.  This should be enough to bring both Lizzie and
you across the Atlantic, and you will find the Hamburg boats which stop
at Southampton very good boats, and cheaper than Liverpool.  If you
could come here and stop at the Johnston House I would try and send you
word how to meet, but things are very difficult with me at present, and
I am not very happy, finding it hard to give you both up.  So no more
at present, from your loving husband,

"James McPherson."


For a time it was confidently anticipated that this letter would lead
to the clearing up of the whole matter, the more so as it was
ascertained that a passenger who bore a close resemblance to the
missing guard had travelled from Southampton under the name of Summers
in the Hamburg and New York liner Vistula, which started upon the 7th
of June.  Mrs. McPherson and her sister Lizzie Dolton went across to
New York as directed and stayed for three weeks at the Johnston House,
without hearing anything from the missing man.  It is probable that
some injudicious comments in the Press may have warned him that the
police were using them as a bait.  However, this may be, it is certain
that he neither wrote nor came, and the women were eventually compelled
to return to Liverpool.

And so the matter stood, and has continued to stand up to the present
year of 1898.  Incredible as it may seem, nothing has transpired during
these eight years which has shed the least light upon the extraordinary
disappearance of the special train which contained Monsieur Caratal and
his companion.  Careful inquiries into the antecedents of the two
travellers have only established the fact that Monsieur Caratal was
well known as a financier and political agent in Central America, and
that during his voyage to Europe he had betrayed extraordinary anxiety
to reach Paris.  His companion, whose name was entered upon the
passenger lists as Eduardo Gomez, was a man whose record was a violent
one, and whose reputation was that of a bravo and a bully.  There was
evidence to show, however, that he was honestly devoted to the
interests of Monsieur Caratal, and that the latter, being a man of puny
physique, employed the other as a guard and protector.  It may be added
that no information came from Paris as to what the objects of Monsieur
Caratal's hurried journey may have been.  This comprises all the facts
of the case up to the publication in the Marseilles papers of the
recent confession of Herbert de Lernac, now under sentence of death for
the murder of a merchant named Bonvalot. This statement may be
literally translated as follows:


"It is not out of mere pride or boasting that I give this information,
for, if that were my object, I could tell a dozen actions of mine which
are quite as splendid; but I do it in order that certain gentlemen in
Paris may understand that I, who am able here to tell about the fate of
Monsieur Caratal, can also tell in whose interest and at whose request
the deed was done, unless the reprieve which I am awaiting comes to me
very quickly.  Take warning, messieurs, before it is too late!  You
know Herbert de Lernac, and you are aware that his deeds are as ready
as his words. Hasten then, or you are lost!

"At present I shall mention no names--if you only heard the names, what
would you not think!--but I shall merely tell you how cleverly I did
it.  I was true to my employers then, and no doubt they will be true to
me now.  I hope so, and until I am convinced that they have betrayed
me, these names, which would convulse Europe, shall not be divulged.
But on that day ... well, I say no more!

"In a word, then, there was a famous trial in Paris, in the year 1890,
in connection with a monstrous scandal in politics and finance.  How
monstrous that scandal was can never be known save by such confidential
agents as myself.  The honour and careers of many of the chief men in
France were at stake.  You have seen a group of ninepins standing, all
so rigid, and prim, and unbending.  Then there comes the ball from far
away and pop, pop, pop--there are your ninepins on the floor.  Well,
imagine some of the greatest men in France as these ninepins and then
this Monsieur Caratal was the ball which could be seen coming from far
away.  If he arrived, then it was pop, pop, pop for all of them.  It
was determined that he should not arrive.

"I do not accuse them all of being conscious of what was to happen.
There were, as I have said, great financial as well as political
interests at stake, and a syndicate was formed to manage the business.
Some subscribed to the syndicate who hardly understood what were its
objects.  But others understood very well, and they can rely upon it
that I have not forgotten their names. They had ample warning that
Monsieur Caratal was coming long before he left South America, and they
knew that the evidence which he held would certainly mean ruin to all
of them.  The syndicate had the command of an unlimited amount of
money--absolutely unlimited, you understand.  They looked round for an
agent who was capable of wielding this gigantic power.  The man chosen
must be inventive, resolute, adaptive--a man in a million.  They chose
Herbert de Lernac, and I admit that they were right.

"My duties were to choose my subordinates, to use freely the power
which money gives, and to make certain that Monsieur Caratal should
never arrive in Paris.  With characteristic energy I set about my
commission within an hour of receiving my instructions, and the steps
which I took were the very best for the purpose which could possibly be
devised.

"A man whom I could trust was dispatched instantly to South America to
travel home with Monsieur Caratal.  Had he arrived in time the ship
would never have reached Liverpool; but alas! it had already started
before my agent could reach it.  I fitted out a small armed brig to
intercept it, but again I was unfortunate. Like all great organizers I
was, however, prepared for failure, and had a series of alternatives
prepared, one or the other of which must succeed.  You must not
underrate the difficulties of my undertaking, or imagine that a mere
commonplace assassination would meet the case.  We must destroy not
only Monsieur Caratal, but Monsieur Caratal's documents, and Monsieur
Caratal's companions also, if we had reason to believe that he had
communicated his secrets to them.  And you must remember that they were
on the alert, and keenly suspicious of any such attempt.  It was a task
which was in every way worthy of me, for I am always most masterful
where another would be appalled.

"I was all ready for Monsieur Caratal's reception in Liverpool, and I
was the more eager because I had reason to believe that he had made
arrangements by which he would have a considerable guard from the
moment that he arrived in London.  Anything which was to be done must
be done between the moment of his setting foot upon the Liverpool quay
and that of his arrival at the London and West Coast terminus in
London.  We prepared six plans, each more elaborate than the last;
which plan would be used would depend upon his own movements.  Do what
he would, we were ready for him.  If he had stayed in Liverpool, we
were ready.  If he took an ordinary train, an express, or a special,
all was ready.  Everything had been foreseen and provided for.

"You may imagine that I could not do all this myself.  What could I
know of the English railway lines?  But money can procure willing
agents all the world over, and I soon had one of the acutest brains in
England to assist me.  I will mention no names, but it would be unjust
to claim all the credit for myself. My English ally was worthy of such
an alliance.  He knew the London and West Coast line thoroughly, and he
had the command of a band of workers who were trustworthy and
intelligent.  The idea was his, and my own judgement was only required
in the details.  We bought over several officials, amongst whom the
most important was James McPherson, whom we had ascertained to be the
guard most likely to be employed upon a special train.  Smith, the
stoker, was also in our employ.  John Slater, the engine-driver, had
been approached, but had been found to be obstinate and dangerous, so
we desisted. We had no certainty that Monsieur Caratal would take a
special, but we thought it very probable, for it was of the utmost
importance to him that he should reach Paris without delay.  It was for
this contingency, therefore, that we made special
preparations--preparations which were complete down to the last detail
long before his steamer had sighted the shores of England.  You will be
amused to learn that there was one of my agents in the pilot-boat which
brought that steamer to its moorings.

"The moment that Caratal arrived in Liverpool we knew that he suspected
danger and was on his guard.  He had brought with him as an escort a
dangerous fellow, named Gomez, a man who carried weapons, and was
prepared to use them.  This fellow carried Caratal's confidential
papers for him, and was ready to protect either them or his master.
The probability was that Caratal had taken him into his counsel, and
that to remove Caratal without removing Gomez would be a mere waste of
energy.  It was necessary that they should be involved in a common
fate, and our plans to that end were much facilitated by their request
for a special train.  On that special train you will understand that
two out of the three servants of the company were really in our employ,
at a price which would make them independent for a lifetime.  I do not
go so far as to say that the English are more honest than any other
nation, but I have found them more expensive to buy.

"I have already spoken of my English agent--who is a man with a
considerable future before him, unless some complaint of the throat
carries him off before his time.  He had charge of all arrangements at
Liverpool, whilst I was stationed at the inn at Kenyon, where I awaited
a cipher signal to act.  When the special was arranged for, my agent
instantly telegraphed to me and warned me how soon I should have
everything ready.  He himself under the name of Horace Moore applied
immediately for a special also, in the hope that he would be sent down
with Monsieur Caratal, which might under certain circumstances have
been helpful to us.  If, for example, our great coup had failed, it
would then have become the duty of my agent to have shot them both and
destroyed their papers. Caratal was on his guard, however, and refused
to admit any other traveller.  My agent then left the station, returned
by another entrance, entered the guard's van on the side farthest from
the platform, and travelled down with McPherson the guard.

"In the meantime you will be interested to know what my movements were.
Everything had been prepared for days before, and only the finishing
touches were needed.  The side line which we had chosen had once joined
the main line, but it had been disconnected. We had only to replace a
few rails to connect it once more.  These rails had been laid down as
far as could be done without danger of attracting attention, and now it
was merely a case of completing a juncture with the line, and arranging
the points as they had been before.  The sleepers had never been
removed, and the rails, fish-plates and rivets were all ready, for we
had taken them from a siding on the abandoned portion of the line.
With my small but competent band of workers, we had everything ready
long before the special arrived.  When it did arrive, it ran off upon
the small side line so easily that the jolting of the points appears to
have been entirely unnoticed by the two travellers.

"Our plan had been that Smith, the stoker, should chloroform John
Slater, the driver, so that he should vanish with the others. In this
respect, and in this respect only, our plans miscarried--I except the
criminal folly of McPherson in writing home to his wife. Our stoker did
his business so clumsily that Slater in his struggles fell off the
engine, and though fortune was with us so far that he broke his neck in
the fall, still he remained as a blot upon that which would otherwise
have been one of those complete masterpieces which are only to be
contemplated in silent admiration.  The criminal expert will find in
John Slater the one flaw in all our admirable combinations.  A man who
has had as many triumphs as I can afford to be frank, and I therefore
lay my finger upon John Slater, and I proclaim him to be a flaw.

"But now I have got our special train upon the small line two
kilometres, or rather more than one mile, in length, which leads, or
rather used to lead, to the abandoned Heartsease mine, once one of the
largest coal mines in England.  You will ask how it is that no one saw
the train upon this unused line.  I answer that along its entire length
it runs through a deep cutting, and that, unless someone had been on
the edge of that cutting, he could not have seen it.  There WAS someone
on the edge of that cutting.  I was there.  And now I will tell you
what I saw.

"My assistant had remained at the points in order that he might
superintend the switching off of the train.  He had four armed men with
him, so that if the train ran off the line--we thought it probable,
because the points were very rusty--we might still have resources to
fall back upon.  Having once seen it safely on the side line, he handed
over the responsibility to me.  I was waiting at a point which
overlooks the mouth of the mine, and I was also armed, as were my two
companions.  Come what might, you see, I was always ready.

"The moment that the train was fairly on the side line, Smith, the
stoker, slowed-down the engine, and then, having turned it on to the
fullest speed again, he and McPherson, with my English lieutenant,
sprang off before it was too late.  It may be that it was this
slowing-down which first attracted the attention of the travellers, but
the train was running at full speed again before their heads appeared
at the open window.  It makes me smile to think how bewildered they
must have been.  Picture to yourself your own feelings if, on looking
out of your luxurious carriage, you suddenly perceived that the lines
upon which you ran were rusted and corroded, red and yellow with disuse
and decay!  What a catch must have come in their breath as in a second
it flashed upon them that it was not Manchester but Death which was
waiting for them at the end of that sinister line.  But the train was
running with frantic speed, rolling and rocking over the rotten line,
while the wheels made a frightful screaming sound upon the rusted
surface.  I was close to them, and could see their faces.  Caratal was
praying, I think--there was something like a rosary dangling out of his
hand.  The other roared like a bull who smells the blood of the
slaughter-house.  He saw us standing on the bank, and he beckoned to us
like a madman.  Then he tore at his wrist and threw his dispatch-box
out of the window in our direction.  Of course, his meaning was
obvious.  Here was the evidence, and they would promise to be silent if
their lives were spared.  It would have been very agreeable if we could
have done so, but business is business.  Besides, the train was now as
much beyond our controls as theirs.

"He ceased howling when the train rattled round the curve and they saw
the black mouth of the mine yawning before them.  We had removed the
boards which had covered it, and we had cleared the square entrance.
The rails had formerly run very close to the shaft for the convenience
of loading the coal, and we had only to add two or three lengths of
rail in order to lead to the very brink of the shaft.  In fact, as the
lengths would not quite fit, our line projected about three feet over
the edge.  We saw the two heads at the window: Caratal below, Gomez
above; but they had both been struck silent by what they saw.  And yet
they could not withdraw their heads.  The sight seemed to have
paralysed them.

"I had wondered how the train running at a great speed would take the
pit into which I had guided it, and I was much interested in watching
it.  One of my colleagues thought that it would actually jump it, and
indeed it was not very far from doing so. Fortunately, however, it fell
short, and the buffers of the engine struck the other lip of the shaft
with a tremendous crash.  The funnel flew off into the air.  The
tender, carriages, and van were all smashed up into one jumble, which,
with the remains of the engine, choked for a minute or so the mouth of
the pit.  Then something gave way in the middle, and the whole mass of
green iron, smoking coals, brass fittings, wheels, wood-work, and
cushions all crumbled together and crashed down into the mine.  We
heard the rattle, rattle, rattle, as the debris struck against the
walls, and then, quite a long time afterwards, there came a deep roar
as the remains of the train struck the bottom.  The boiler may have
burst, for a sharp crash came after the roar, and then a dense cloud of
steam and smoke swirled up out of the black depths, falling in a spray
as thick as rain all round us.  Then the vapour shredded off into thin
wisps, which floated away in the summer sunshine, and all was quiet
again in the Heartsease mine.

"And now, having carried out our plans so successfully, it only
remained to leave no trace behind us.  Our little band of workers at
the other end had already ripped up the rails and disconnected the side
line, replacing everything as it had been before.  We were equally busy
at the mine.  The funnel and other fragments were thrown in, the shaft
was planked over as it used to be, and the lines which led to it were
torn up and taken away.  Then, without flurry, but without delay, we
all made our way out of the country, most of us to Paris, my English
colleague to Manchester, and McPherson to Southampton, whence he
emigrated to America.  Let the English papers of that date tell how
throughly we had done our work, and how completely we had thrown the
cleverest of their detectives off our track.

"You will remember that Gomez threw his bag of papers out of the
window, and I need not say that I secured that bag and brought them to
my employers.  It may interest my employers now, however, to learn that
out of that bag I took one or two little papers as a souvenir of the
occasion.  I have no wish to publish these papers; but, still, it is
every man for himself in this world, and what else can I do if my
friends will not come to my aid when I want them?  Messieurs, you may
believe that Herbert de Lernac is quite as formidable when he is
against you as when he is with you, and that he is not a man to go to
the guillotine until he has seen that every one of you is en route for
New Caledonia.  For your own sake, if not for mine, make haste,
Monsieur de ----, and General ----, and Baron ---- (you can fill up the
blanks for yourselves as you read this).  I promise you that in the
next edition there will be no blanks to fill.

"P.S.--As I look over my statement there is only one omission which I
can see.  It concerns the unfortunate man McPherson, who was foolish
enough to write to his wife and to make an appointment with her in New
York.  It can be imagined that when interests like ours were at stake,
we could not leave them to the chance of whether a man in that class of
life would or would not give away his secrets to a woman.  Having once
broken his oath by writing to his wife, we could not trust him any
more.  We took steps therefore to insure that he should not see his
wife.  I have sometimes thought that it would be a kindness to write to
her and to assure her that there is no impediment to her marrying
again."



The Beetle-Hunter

A curious experience? said the Doctor.  Yes, my friends, I have had one
very curious experience.  I never expect to have another, for it is
against all doctrines of chances that two such events would befall any
one man in a single lifetime.  You may believe me or not, but the thing
happened exactly as I tell it.

I had just become a medical man, but I had not started in practice, and
I lived in rooms in Gower Street.  The street has been renumbered since
then, but it was in the only house which has a bow-window, upon the
left-hand side as you go down from the Metropolitan Station.  A widow
named Murchison kept the house at that time, and she had three medical
students and one engineer as lodgers.  I occupied the top room, which
was the cheapest, but cheap as it was it was more than I could afford.
My small resources were dwindling away, and every week it became more
necessary that I should find something to do.  Yet I was very unwilling
to go into general practice, for my tastes were all in the direction of
science, and especially of zoology, towards which I had always a strong
leaning.  I had almost given the fight up and resigned myself to being
a medical drudge for life, when the turning-point of my struggles came
in a very extraordinary way.

One morning I had picked up the Standard and was glancing over its
contents.  There was a complete absence of news, and I was about to
toss the paper down again, when my eyes were caught by an advertisement
at the head of the personal column.  It was worded in this way:


"Wanted for one or more days the services of a medical man.  It is
essential that he should be a man of strong physique, of steady nerves,
and of a resolute nature.  Must be an entomologist--coleopterist
preferred.  Apply, in person, at 77B, Brook Street. Application must be
made before twelve o'clock today."


Now, I have already said that I was devoted to zoology.  Of all
branches of zoology, the study of insects was the most attractive to
me, and of all insects beetles were the species with which I was most
familiar.  Butterfly collectors are numerous, but beetles are far more
varied, and more accessible in these islands than are butterflies.  It
was this fact which had attracted my attention to them, and I had
myself made a collection which numbered some hundred varieties.  As to
the other requisites of the advertisement, I knew that my nerves could
be depended upon, and I had won the weight-throwing competition at the
inter-hospital sports.  Clearly, I was the very man for the vacancy.
Within five minutes of my having read the advertisement I was in a cab
and on my was to Brook Street.

As I drove, I kept turning the matter over in my head and trying to
make a guess as to what sort of employment it could be which needed
such curious qualifications.  A strong physique, a resolute nature, a
medical training, and a knowledge of beetles--what connection could
there be between these various requisites? And then there was the
disheartening fact that the situation was not a permanent one, but
terminable from day to day, according to the terms of the
advertisement.  The more I pondered over it the more unintelligible did
it become; but at the end of my meditations I always came back to the
ground fact that, come what might, I had nothing to lose, that I was
completely at the end of my resources, and that I was ready for any
adventure, however desperate, which would put a few honest sovereigns
into my pocket.  The man fears to fail who has to pay for his failure,
but there was no penalty which Fortune could exact from me.  I was like
the gambler with empty pockets, who is still allowed to try his luck
with the others.

No. 77B, Brook Street, was one of those dingy and yet imposing houses,
dun-coloured and flat-faced, with the intensely respectable and solid
air which marks the Georgian builder.  As I alighted from the cab, a
young man came out of the door and walked swiftly down the street.  In
passing me, I noticed that he cast an inquisitive and somewhat
malevolent glance at me, and I took the incident as a good omen, for
his appearance was that of a rejected candidate, and if he resented my
application it meant that the vacancy was not yet filled up.  Full of
hope, I ascended the broad steps and rapped with the heavy knocker.

A footman in powder and livery opened the door.  Clearly I was in touch
with the people of wealth and fashion.


"Yes, sir?" said the footman.

"I came in answer to----"

"Quite so, sir," said the footman.  "Lord Linchmere will see you at
once in the library."

Lord Linchmere!  I had vaguely heard the name, but could not for the
instant recall anything about him.  Following the footman, I was shown
into a large, book-lined room in which there was seated behind a
writing-desk a small man with a pleasant, clean-shaven, mobile face,
and long hair shot with grey, brushed back from his forehead.  He
looked me up and down with a very shrewd, penetrating glance, holding
the card which the footman had given him in his right hand.  Then he
smiled pleasantly, and I felt that externally at any rate I possessed
the qualifications which he desired.

"You have come in answer to my advertisement, Dr. Hamilton?" he asked.

"Yes, sir."

"Do you fulfil the conditions which are there laid down?"

"I believe that I do."

"You are a powerful man, or so I should judge from your appearance.

"I think that I am fairly strong."

"And resolute?"

"I believe so."

"Have you ever known what it was to be exposed to imminent danger?"

"No, I don't know that I ever have."

"But you think you would be prompt and cool at such a time?"

"I hope so."

"Well, I believe that you would.  I have the more confidence in you
because you do not pretend to be certain as to what you would do in a
position that was new to you.  My impression is that, so far as
personal qualities go, you are the very man of whom I am in search.
That being settled, we may pass on to the next point."

"Which is?"

"To talk to me about beetles."

I looked across to see if he was joking, but, on the contrary, he was
leaning eagerly forward across his desk, and there was an expression of
something like anxiety in his eyes.

"I am afraid that you do not know about beetles," he cried.

"On the contrary, sir, it is the one scientific subject about which I
feel that I really do know something."

"I am overjoyed to hear it.  Please talk to me about beetles."

I talked.  I do not profess to have said anything original upon the
subject, but I gave a short sketch of the characteristics of the
beetle, and ran over the more common species, with some allusions to
the specimens in my own little collection and to the article upon
"Burying Beetles" which I had contributed to the Journal of
Entomological Science.

"What! not a collector?" cried Lord Linchmere.  "You don't mean that
you are yourself a collector?"  His eyes danced with pleasure at the
thought.

"You are certainly the very man in London for my purpose.  I thought
that among five millions of people there must be such a man, but the
difficulty is to lay one's hands upon him.  I have been extraordinarily
fortunate in finding you."

He rang a gong upon the table, and the footman entered.

"Ask Lady Rossiter to have the goodness to step this way," said his
lordship, and a few moments later the lady was ushered into the room.
She was a small, middle-aged woman, very like Lord Linchmere in
appearance, with the same quick, alert features and grey-black hair.
The expression of anxiety, however, which I had observed upon his face
was very much more marked upon hers.  Some great grief seemed to have
cast its shadow over her features.  As Lord Linchmere presented me she
turned her face full upon me, and I was shocked to observe a
half-healed scar extending for two inches over her right eyebrow.  It
was partly concealed by plaster, but none the less I could see that it
had been a serious wound and not long inflicted.

"Dr. Hamilton is the very man for our purpose, Evelyn," said Lord
Linchmere.  "He is actually a collector of beetles, and he has written
articles upon the subject."

"Really!" said Lady Rossiter.  "Then you must have heard of my husband.
Everyone who knows anything about beetles must have heard of Sir Thomas
Rossiter."

For the first time a thin little ray of light began to break into the
obscure business.  Here, at last, was a connection between these people
and beetles.  Sir Thomas Rossiter--he was the greatest authority upon
the subject in the world.  He had made it his lifelong study, and had
written a most exhaustive work upon it.  I hastened to assure her that
I had read and appreciated it.

"Have you met my husband?" she asked.

"No, I have not."

"But you shall," said Lord Linchmere, with decision.

The lady was standing beside the desk, and she put her hand upon his
shoulder.  It was obvious to me as I saw their faces together that they
were brother and sister.

"Are you really prepared for this, Charles?  It is noble of you, but
you fill me with fears."  Her voice quavered with apprehension, and he
appeared to me to be equally moved, though he was making strong efforts
to conceal his agitation.

"Yes, yes, dear; it is all settled, it is all decided; in fact, there
is no other possible way, that I can see."

"There is one obvious way."

"No, no, Evelyn, I shall never abandon you--never.  It will come
right--depend upon it; it will come right, and surely it looks like the
interference of Providence that so perfect an instrument should be put
into our hands."

My position was embarrassing, for I felt that for the instant they had
forgotten my presence.  But Lord Linchmere came back suddenly to me and
to my engagement.

"The business for which I want you, Dr. Hamilton, is that you should
put yourself absolutely at my disposal.  I wish you to come for a short
journey with me, to remain always at my side, and to promise to do
without question whatever I may ask you, however unreasonable it may
appear to you to be."

"That is a good deal to ask," said I.

"Unfortunately I cannot put it more plainly, for I do not myself know
what turn matters may take.  You may be sure, however, that you will
not be asked to do anything which your conscience does not approve; and
I promise you that, when all is over, you will be proud to have been
concerned in so good a work."

"If it ends happily," said the lady.

"Exactly; if it ends happily," his lordship repeated.

"And terms?" I asked.

"Twenty pounds a day."

I was amazed at the sum, and must have showed my surprise upon my
features.

"It is a rare combination of qualities, as must have struck you when
you first read the advertisement," said Lord Linchmere; "such varied
gifts may well command a high return, and I do not conceal from you
that your duties might be arduous or even dangerous. Besides, it is
possible that one or two days may bring the matter to an end."

"Please God!" sighed his sister.

"So now, Dr. Hamilton, may I rely upon your aid?"

"Most undoubtedly," said I.  "You have only to tell me what my duties
are."

"Your first duty will be to return to your home.  You will pack up
whatever you may need for a short visit to the country.  We start
together from Paddington Station at 3:40 this afternoon."

"Do we go far?"

"As far as Pangbourne.  Meet me at the bookstall at 3:30.  I shall have
the tickets.  Goodbye, Dr. Hamilton!  And, by the way, there are two
things which I should be very glad if you would bring with you, in case
you have them.  One is your case for collecting beetles, and the other
is a stick, and the thicker and heavier the better."


You may imagine that I had plenty to think of from the time that I left
Brook Street until I set out to meet Lord Linchmere at Paddington.  The
whole fantastic business kept arranging and rearranging itself in
kaleidoscopic forms inside my brain, until I had thought out a dozen
explanations, each of them more grotesquely improbable than the last.
And yet I felt that the truth must be something grotesquely improbable
also.  At last I gave up all attempts at finding a solution, and
contented myself with exactly carrying out the instructions which I had
received.  With a hand valise, specimen-case, and a loaded cane, I was
waiting at the Paddington bookstall when Lord Linchmere arrived.  He
was an even smaller man than I had thought--frail and peaky, with a
manner which was more nervous than it had been in the morning.  He wore
a long, thick travelling ulster, and I observed that he carried a heavy
blackthorn cudgel in his hand.

"I have the tickets," said he, leading the way up the platform.

"This is our train.  I have engaged a carriage, for I am particularly
anxious to impress one or two things upon you while we travel down."

And yet all that he had to impress upon me might have been said in a
sentence, for it was that I was to remember that I was there as a
protection to himself, and that I was not on any consideration to leave
him for an instant.  This he repeated again and again as our journey
drew to a close, with an insistence which showed that his nerves were
thoroughly shaken.

"Yes," he said at last, in answer to my looks rather than to my words,
"I AM nervous, Dr. Hamilton.  I have always been a timid man, and my
timidity depends upon my frail physical health.  But my soul is firm,
and I can bring myself up to face a danger which a less-nervous man
might shrink from.  What I am doing now is done from no compulsion, but
entirely from a sense of duty, and yet it is, beyond doubt, a desperate
risk.  If things should go wrong, I will have some claims to the title
of martyr."

This eternal reading of riddles was too much for me.  I felt that I
must put a term to it.

"I think it would very much better, sir, if you were to trust me
entirely," said I.  "It is impossible for me to act effectively, when I
do not know what are the objects which we have in view, or even where
we are going."

"Oh, as to where we are going, there need be no mystery about that,"
said he; "we are going to Delamere Court, the residence of Sir Thomas
Rossiter, with whose work you are so conversant.  As to the exact
object of our visit, I do not know that at this stage of the
proceedings anything would be gained, Dr. Hamilton, by taking you into
my complete confidence.  I may tell you that we are acting--I say 'we,'
because my sister, Lady Rossiter, takes the same view as myself--with
the one object of preventing anything in the nature of a family
scandal.  That being so, you can understand that I am loath to give any
explanations which are not absolutely necessary.  It would be a
different matter, Dr. Hamilton, if I were asking your advice.  As
matters stand, it is only your active help which I need, and I will
indicate to you from time to time how you can best give it."

There was nothing more to be said, and a poor man can put up with a
good deal for twenty pounds a day, but I felt none the less that Lord
Linchmere was acting rather scurvily towards me.  He wished to convert
me into a passive tool, like the blackthorn in his hand.  With his
sensitive disposition I could imagine, however, that scandal would be
abhorrent to him, and I realized that he would not take me into his
confidence until no other course was open to him.  I must trust to my
own eyes and ears to solve the mystery, but I had every confidence that
I should not trust to them in vain.

Delamere Court lies a good five miles from Pangbourne Station, and we
drove for that distance in an open fly.  Lord Linchmere sat in deep
thought during the time, and he never opened his mouth until we were
close to our destination.  When he did speak it was to give me a piece
of information which surprised me.

"Perhaps you are not aware," said he, "that I am a medical man like
yourself?"

"No, sir, I did not know it."

"Yes, I qualified in my younger days, when there were several lives
between me and the peerage.  I have not had occasion to practise, but I
have found it a useful education, all the same.  I never regretted the
years which I devoted to medical study.  These are the gates of
Delamere Court."

We had come to two high pillars crowned with heraldic monsters which
flanked the opening of a winding avenue.  Over the laurel bushes and
rhododendrons, I could see a long, many-gabled mansion, girdled with
ivy, and toned to the warm, cheery, mellow glow of old brick-work.  My
eyes were still fixed in admiration upon this delightful house when my
companion plucked nervously at my sleeve.

"Here's Sir Thomas," he whispered.  "Please talk beetle all you can."

A tall, thin figure, curiously angular and bony, had emerged through a
gap in the hedge of laurels.  In his hand he held a spud, and he wore
gauntleted gardener's gloves.  A broad-brimmed, grey hat cast his face
into shadow, but it struck me as exceedingly austere, with an
ill-nourished beard and harsh, irregular features. The fly pulled up
and Lord Linchmere sprang out.

"My dear Thomas, how are you?" said he, heartily.

But the heartiness was by no means reciprocal.  The owner of the
grounds glared at me over his brother-in-law's shoulder, and I caught
broken scraps of sentences--"well-known wishes ... hatred of
strangers ... unjustifiable intrusion ... perfectly inexcusable."
Then there was a muttered explanation, and the two of them came over
together to the side of the fly.

"Let me present you to Sir Thomas Rossiter, Dr. Hamilton," said Lord
Linchmere.  "You will find that you have a strong community of tastes."

I bowed.  Sir Thomas stood very stiffly, looking at me severely from
under the broad brim of his hat.

"Lord Linchmere tells me that you know something about beetles," said
he.  "What do you know about beetles?"

"I know what I have learned from your work upon the coleoptera, Sir
Thomas," I answered.

"Give me the names of the better-known species of the British
scarabaei," said he.

I had not expected an examination, but fortunately I was ready for one.
My answers seemed to please him, for his stern features relaxed.

"You appear to have read my book with some profit, sir," said he.  "It
is a rare thing for me to meet anyone who takes an intelligent interest
in such matters.  People can find time for such trivialities as sport
or society, and yet the beetles are overlooked.  I can assure you that
the greater part of the idiots in this part of the country are unaware
that I have ever written a book at all--I, the first man who ever
described the true function of the elytra.  I am glad to see you, sir,
and I have no doubt that I can show you some specimens which will
interest you."  He stepped into the fly and drove up with us to the
house, expounding to me as we went some recent researches which he had
made into the anatomy of the lady-bird.

I have said that Sir Thomas Rossiter wore a large hat drawn down over
his brows.  As he entered the hall he uncovered himself, and I was at
once aware of a singular characteristic which the hat had concealed.
His forehead, which was naturally high, and higher still on account of
receding hair, was in a continual state of movement.  Some nervous
weakness kept the muscles in a constant spasm, which sometimes produced
a mere twitching and sometimes a curious rotary movement unlike
anything which I had ever seen before.  It was strikingly visible as he
turned towards us after entering the study, and seemed the more
singular from the contrast with the hard, steady, grey eyes which
looked out from underneath those palpitating brows.

"I am sorry," said he, "that Lady Rossiter is not here to help me to
welcome you.  By the way, Charles, did Evelyn say anything about the
date of her return?"

"She wished to stay in town for a few more days," said Lord Linchmere.
"You know how ladies' social duties accumulate if they have been for
some time in the country.  My sister has many old friends in London at
present."

"Well, she is her own mistress, and I should not wish to alter her
plans, but I shall be glad when I see her again.  It is very lonely
here without her company."

"I was afraid that you might find it so, and that was partly why I ran
down.  My young friend, Dr. Hamilton, is so much interested in the
subject which you have made your own, that I thought you would not mind
his accompanying me."

"I lead a retired life, Dr. Hamilton, and my aversion to strangers
grows upon me," said our host.  "I have sometimes thought that my
nerves are not so good as they were.  My travels in search of beetles
in my younger days took me into many malarious and unhealthy places.
But a brother coleopterist like yourself is always a welcome guest, and
I shall be delighted if you will look over my collection, which I think
that I may without exaggeration describe as the best in Europe."

And so no doubt it was.  He had a huge, oaken cabinet arranged in
shallow drawers, and here, neatly ticketed and classified, were beetles
from every corner of the earth, black, brown, blue, green, and mottled.
Every now and then as he swept his hand over the lines and lines of
impaled insects he would catch up some rare specimen, and, handling it
with as much delicacy and reverence as if it were a precious relic, he
would hold forth upon its peculiarities and the circumstances under
which it came into his possession.  It was evidently an unusual thing
for him to meet with a sympathetic listener, and he talked and talked
until the spring evening had deepened into night, and the gong
announced that it was time to dress for dinner.  All the time Lord
Linchmere said nothing, but he stood at his brother-in-law's elbow, and
I caught him continually shooting curious little, questioning glances
into his face.  And his own features expressed some strong emotion,
apprehension, sympathy, expectation:  I seemed to read them all. I was
sure that Lord Linchmere was fearing something and awaiting something,
but what that something might be I could not imagine.

The evening passed quietly but pleasantly, and I should have been
entirely at my ease if it had not been for that continual sense of
tension upon the part of Lord Linchmere.  As to our host, I found that
he improved upon acquaintance.  He spoke constantly with affection of
his absent wife, and also of his little son, who had recently been sent
to school.  The house, he said, was not the same without them.  If it
were not for his scientific studies, he did not know how he could get
through the days.  After dinner we smoked for some time in the
billiard-room, and finally went early to bed.

And then it was that, for the first time, the suspicion that Lord
Linchmere was a lunatic crossed my mind.  He followed me into my
bedroom, when our host had retired.

"Doctor," said he, speaking in a low, hurried voice, "you must come
with me.  You must spend the night in my bedroom."

"What do you mean?"

"I prefer not to explain.  But this is part of your duties.  My room is
close by, and you can return to your own before the servant calls you
in the morning."

"But why?" I asked.

"Because I am nervous of being alone," said he.  "That's the reason,
since you must have a reason."

It seemed rank lunacy, but the argument of those twenty pounds would
overcome many objections.  I followed him to his room.

"Well," said I, "there's only room for one in that bed."

"Only one shall occupy it," said he.

"And the other?"

"Must remain on watch."

"Why?" said I.  "One would think you expected to be attacked."

"Perhaps I do."

"In that case, why not lock your door?"

"Perhaps I WANT to be attacked."

It looked more and more like lunacy.  However, there was nothing for it
but to submit.  I shrugged my shoulders and sat down in the arm-chair
beside the empty fireplace.

"I am to remain on watch, then?" said I, ruefully.

"We will divide the night.  If you will watch until two, I will watch
the remainder."

"Very good."

"Call me at two o'clock, then."

"I will do so."

"Keep your ears open, and if you hear any sounds wake me
instantly--instantly, you hear?"

"You can rely upon it."  I tried to look as solemn as he did.

"And for God's sake don't go to sleep," said he, and so, taking off
only his coat, he threw the coverlet over him and settled down for the
night.

It was a melancholy vigil, and made more so by my own sense of its
folly.  Supposing that by any chance Lord Linchmere had cause to
suspect that he was subject to danger in the house of Sir Thomas
Rossiter, why on earth could he not lock his door and so protect
himself?  His own answer that he might wish to be attacked was absurd.
Why should he possibly wish to be attacked?  And who would wish to
attack him?  Clearly, Lord Linchmere was suffering from some singular
delusion, and the result was that on an imbecile pretext I was to be
deprived of my night's rest.  Still, however absurd, I was determined
to carry out his injunctions to the letter as long as I was in his
employment.  I sat, therefore, beside the empty fireplace, and listened
to a sonorous chiming clock somewhere down the passage which gurgled
and struck every quarter of an hour. It was an endless vigil.  Save for
that single clock, an absolute silence reigned throughout the great
house.  A small lamp stood on the table at my elbow, throwing a circle
of light round my chair, but leaving the corners of the room draped in
shadow.  On the bed Lord Linchmere was breathing peacefully.  I envied
him his quiet sleep, and again and again my own eyelids drooped, but
every time my sense of duty came to my help, and I sat up, rubbing my
eyes and pinching myself with a determination to see my irrational
watch to an end.

And I did so.  From down the passage came the chimes of two o'clock,
and I laid my hand upon the shoulder of the sleeper. Instantly he was
sitting up, with an expression of the keenest interest upon his face.

"You have heard something?"

"No, sir.  It is two o'clock."

"Very good.  I will watch.  You can go to sleep."

I lay down under the coverlet as he had done and was soon unconscious.
My last recollection was of that circle of lamplight, and of the small,
hunched-up figure and strained, anxious face of Lord Linchmere in the
centre of it.

How long I slept I do not know; but I was suddenly aroused by a sharp
tug at my sleeve.  The room was in darkness, but a hot smell of oil
told me that the lamp had only that instant been extinguished.

"Quick!  Quick!" said Lord Linchmere's voice in my ear.

I sprang out of bed, he still dragging at my arm.

"Over here!" he whispered, and pulled me into a corner of the room.
"Hush!  Listen!"

In the silence of the night I could distinctly hear that someone was
coming down the corridor.  It was a stealthy step, faint and
intermittent, as of a man who paused cautiously after every stride.
Sometimes for half a minute there was no sound, and then came the
shuffle and creak which told of a fresh advance.  My companion was
trembling with excitement.  His hand, which still held my sleeve,
twitched like a branch in the wind.

"What is it?" I whispered.

"It's he!"

"Sir Thomas?"

"Yes."

"What does he want?"

"Hush!  Do nothing until I tell you."

I was conscious now that someone was trying the door.  There was the
faintest little rattle from the handle, and then I dimly saw a thin
slit of subdued light.  There was a lamp burning somewhere far down the
passage, and it just sufficed to make the outside visible from the
darkness of our room.  The greyish slit grew broader and broader, very
gradually, very gently, and then outlined against it I saw the dark
figure of a man.  He was squat and crouching, with the silhouette of a
bulky and misshapen dwarf. Slowly the door swung open with this ominous
shape framed in the centre of it.  And then, in an instant, the
crouching figure shot up, there was a tiger spring across the room and
thud, thud, thud, came three tremendous blows from some heavy object
upon the bed.

I was so paralysed with amazement that I stood motionless and staring
until I was aroused by a yell for help from my companion. The open door
shed enough light for me to see the outline of things, and there was
little Lord Linchmere with his arms round the neck of his
brother-in-law, holding bravely on to him like a game bull-terrier with
its teeth into a gaunt deerhound.  The tall, bony man dashed himself
about, writhing round and round to get a grip upon his assailant; but
the other, clutching on from behind, still kept his hold, though his
shrill, frightened cries showed how unequal he felt the contest to be.
I sprang to the rescue, and the two of us managed to throw Sir Thomas
to the ground, though he made his teeth meet in my shoulder.  With all
my youth and weight and strength, it was a desperate struggle before we
could master his frenzied struggles; but at last we secured his arms
with the waist-cord of the dressing-gown which he was wearing.  I was
holding his legs while Lord Linchmere was endeavouring to relight the
lamp, when there came the pattering of many feet in the passage, and
the butler and two footmen, who had been alarmed by the cries, rushed
into the room.  With their aid we had no further difficulty in securing
our prisoner, who lay foaming and glaring upon the ground. One glance
at his face was enough to prove that he was a dangerous maniac, while
the short, heavy hammer which lay beside the bed showed how murderous
had been his intentions.

"Do not use any violence!" said Lord Linchmere, as we raised the
struggling man to his feet.  "He will have a period of stupor after
this excitement.  I believe that it is coming on already." As he spoke
the convulsions became less violent, and the madman's head fell forward
upon his breast, as if he were overcome by sleep.  We led him down the
passage and stretched him upon his own bed, where he lay unconscious,
breathing heavily.

"Two of you will watch him," said Lord Linchmere.  "And now, Dr.
Hamilton, if you will return with me to my room, I will give you the
explanation which my horror of scandal has perhaps caused me to delay
too long.  Come what may, you will never have cause to regret your
share in this night's work.

"The case may be made clear in a very few words," he continued, when we
were alone.  "My poor brother-in-law is one of the best fellows upon
earth, a loving husband and an estimable father, but he comes from a
stock which is deeply tainted with insanity.  He has more than once had
homicidal outbreaks, which are the more painful because his inclination
is always to attack the very person to whom he is most attached.  His
son was sent away to school to avoid this danger, and then came an
attempt upon my sister, his wife, from which she escaped with injuries
that you may have observed when you met her in London.  You understand
that he knows nothing of the matter when he is in his sound senses, and
would ridicule the suggestion that he could under any circumstances
injure those whom he loves so dearly.  It is often, as you know, a
characteristic of such maladies that it is absolutely impossible to
convince the man who suffers from them of their existence.

"Our great object was, of course, to get him under restraint before he
could stain his hands with blood, but the matter was full of
difficulty.  He is a recluse in his habits, and would not see any
medical man.  Besides, it was necessary for our purpose that the
medical man should convince himself of his insanity; and he is sane as
you or I, save on these very rare occasions.  But, fortunately, before
he has these attacks he always shows certain premonitory symptoms,
which are providential danger-signals, warning us to be upon our guard.
The chief of these is that nervous contortion of the forehead which you
must have observed. This is a phenomenon which always appears from
three to four days before his attacks of frenzy.  The moment it showed
itself his wife came into town on some pretext, and took refuge in my
house in Brook Street.

"It remained for me to convince a medical man of Sir Thomas's insanity,
without which it was impossible to put him where he could do no harm.
The first problem was how to get a medical man into his house.  I
bethought me of his interest in beetles, and his love for anyone who
shared his tastes.  I advertised, therefore, and was fortunate enough
to find in you the very man I wanted.  A stout companion was necessary,
for I knew that the lunacy could only be proved by a murderous assault,
and I had every reason to believe that that assault would be made upon
myself, since he had the warmest regard for me in his moments of
sanity.  I think your intelligence will supply all the rest.  I did not
know that the attack would come by night, but I thought it very
probable, for the crises of such cases usually do occur in the early
hours of the morning.  I am a very nervous man myself, but I saw no
other way in which I could remove this terrible danger from my sister's
life. I need not ask you whether you are willing to sign the lunacy
papers."

"Undoubtedly.  But TWO signatures are necessary."

"You forget that I am myself a holder of a medical degree.  I have the
papers on a side-table here, so if you will be good enough to sign them
now, we can have the patient removed in the morning."


So that was my visit to Sir Thomas Rossiter, the famous beetle-hunter,
and that was also my first step upon the ladder of success, for Lady
Rossiter and Lord Linchmere have proved to be staunch friends, and they
have never forgotten my association with them in the time of their
need.  Sir Thomas is out and said to be cured, but I still think that
if I spent another night at Delamere Court, I should be inclined to
lock my door upon the inside.



The Man with the Watches

There are many who will still bear in mind the singular circumstances
which, under the heading of the Rugby Mystery, filled many columns of
the daily Press in the spring of the year 1892.  Coming as it did at a
period of exceptional dullness, it attracted perhaps rather more
attention than it deserved, but it offered to the public that mixture
of the whimsical and the tragic which is most stimulating to the
popular imagination. Interest drooped, however, when, after weeks of
fruitless investigation, it was found that no final explanation of the
facts was forthcoming, and the tragedy seemed from that time to the
present to have finally taken its place in the dark catalogue of
inexplicable and unexpiated crimes.  A recent communication (the
authenticity of which appears to be above question) has, however,
thrown some new and clear light upon the matter.  Before laying it
before the public it would be as well, perhaps, that I should refresh
their memories as to the singular facts upon which this commentary is
founded.  These facts were briefly as follows:

At five o'clock on the evening of the 18th of March in the year already
mentioned a train left Euston Station for Manchester.  It was a rainy,
squally day, which grew wilder as it progressed, so it was by no means
the weather in which anyone would travel who was not driven to do so by
necessity.  The train, however, is a favourite one among Manchester
business men who are returning from town, for it does the journey in
four hours and twenty minutes, with only three stoppages upon the way.
In spite of the inclement evening it was, therefore, fairly well filled
upon the occasion of which I speak.  The guard of the train was a tried
servant of the company--a man who had worked for twenty-two years
without a blemish or complaint.  His name was John Palmer.

The station clock was upon the stroke of five, and the guard was about
to give the customary signal to the engine-driver when he observed two
belated passengers hurrying down the platform.  The one was an
exceptionally tall man, dressed in a long black overcoat with astrakhan
collar and cuffs.  I have already said that the evening was an
inclement one, and the tall traveller had the high, warm collar turned
up to protect his throat against the bitter March wind.  He appeared,
as far as the guard could judge by so hurried an inspection, to be a
man between fifty and sixty years of age, who had retained a good deal
of the vigour and activity of his youth.  In one hand he carried a
brown leather Gladstone bag.  His companion was a lady, tall and erect,
walking with a vigorous step which outpaced the gentleman beside her.
She wore a long, fawn-coloured dust-cloak, a black, close-fitting
toque, and a dark veil which concealed the greater part of her face.
The two might very well have passed as father and daughter.  They
walked swiftly down the line of carriages, glancing in at the windows,
until the guard, John Palmer, overtook them.

"Now then, sir, look sharp, the train is going," said he.

"First-class," the man answered.

The guard turned the handle of the nearest door.  In the carriage which
he had opened, there sat a small man with a cigar in his mouth.  His
appearance seems to have impressed itself upon the guard's memory, for
he was prepared, afterwards, to describe or to identify him.  He was a
man of thirty-four or thirty-five years of age, dressed in some grey
material, sharp-nosed, alert, with a ruddy, weather-beaten face, and a
small, closely cropped, black beard.  He glanced up as the door was
opened.  The tall man paused with his foot upon the step.

"This is a smoking compartment.  The lady dislikes smoke," said he,
looking round at the guard.

"All right!  Here you are, sir!" said John Palmer.  He slammed the door
of the smoking carriage, opened that of the next one, which was empty,
and thrust the two travellers in.  At the same moment he sounded his
whistle and the wheels of the train began to move.  The man with the
cigar was at the window of his carriage, and said something to the
guard as he rolled past him, but the words were lost in the bustle of
the departure.  Palmer stepped into the guard's van, as it came up to
him, and thought no more of the incident.

Twelve minutes after its departure the train reached Willesden
Junction, where it stopped for a very short interval.  An examination
of the tickets has made it certain that no one either joined or left it
at this time, and no passenger was seen to alight upon the platform.
At 5:14 the journey to Manchester was resumed, and Rugby was reached at
6:50, the express being five minutes late.

At Rugby the attention of the station officials was drawn to the fact
that the door of one of the first-class carriages was open.  An
examination of that compartment, and of its neighbour, disclosed a
remarkable state of affairs.

The smoking carriage in which the short, red-faced man with the black
beard had been seen was now empty.  Save for a half-smoked cigar, there
was no trace whatever of its recent occupant.  The door of this
carriage was fastened.  In the next compartment, to which attention had
been originally drawn, there was no sign either of the gentleman with
the astrakhan collar or of the young lady who accompanied him.  All
three passengers had disappeared.  On the other hand, there was found
upon the floor of this carriage--the one in which the tall traveller
and the lady had been--a young man fashionably dressed and of elegant
appearance.  He lay with his knees drawn up, and his head resting
against the farther door, an elbow upon either seat.  A bullet had
penetrated his heart and his death must have been instantaneous.  No
one had seen such a man enter the train, and no railway ticket was
found in his pocket, neither were there any markings upon his linen,
nor papers nor personal property which might help to identify him.  Who
he was, whence he had come, and how he had met his end were each as
great a mystery as what had occurred to the three people who had
started an hour and a half before from Willesden in those two
compartments.

I have said that there was no personal property which might help to
identify him, but it is true that there was one peculiarity about this
unknown young man which was much commented upon at the time.  In his
pockets were found no fewer than six valuable gold watches, three in
the various pockets of his waist-coat, one in his ticket-pocket, one in
his breast-pocket, and one small one set in a leather strap and
fastened round his left wrist.  The obvious explanation that the man
was a pickpocket, and that this was his plunder, was discounted by the
fact that all six were of American make and of a type which is rare in
England.  Three of them bore the mark of the Rochester Watchmaking
Company; one was by Mason, of Elmira; one was unmarked; and the small
one, which was highly jewelled and ornamented, was from Tiffany, of New
York.  The other contents of his pocket consisted of an ivory knife
with a corkscrew by Rodgers, of Sheffield; a small, circular mirror,
one inch in diameter; a readmission slip to the Lyceum Theatre; a
silver box full of vesta matches, and a brown leather cigar-case
containing two cheroots--also two pounds fourteen shillings in money.
It was clear, then, that whatever motives may have led to his death,
robbery was not among them.  As already mentioned, there were no
markings upon the man's linen, which appeared to be new, and no
tailor's name upon his coat.  In appearance he was young, short,
smooth-cheeked, and delicately featured.  One of his front teeth was
conspicuously stopped with gold.

On the discovery of the tragedy an examination was instantly made of
the tickets of all passengers, and the number of the passengers
themselves was counted.  It was found that only three tickets were
unaccounted for, corresponding to the three travellers who were
missing.  The express was then allowed to proceed, but a new guard was
sent with it, and John Palmer was detained as a witness at Rugby.  The
carriage which included the two compartments in question was uncoupled
and side-tracked.  Then, on the arrival of Inspector Vane, of Scotland
Yard, and of Mr. Henderson, a detective in the service of the railway
company, an exhaustive inquiry was made into all the circumstances.

That crime had been committed was certain.  The bullet, which appeared
to have come from a small pistol or revolver, had been fired from some
little distance, as there was no scorching of the clothes.  No weapon
was found in the compartment (which finally disposed of the theory of
suicide), nor was there any sign of the brown leather bag which the
guard had seen in the hand of the tall gentleman.  A lady's parasol was
found upon the rack, but no other trace was to be seen of the
travellers in either of the sections. Apart from the crime, the
question of how or why three passengers (one of them a lady) could get
out of the train, and one other get in during the unbroken run between
Willesden and Rugby, was one which excited the utmost curiosity among
the general public, and gave rise to much speculation in the London
Press.

John Palmer, the guard was able at the inquest to give some evidence
which threw a little light upon the matter.  There was a spot between
Tring and Cheddington, according to his statement, where, on account of
some repairs to the line, the train had for a few minutes slowed down
to a pace not exceeding eight or ten miles an hour.  At that place it
might be possible for a man, or even for an exceptionally active woman,
to have left the train without serious injury.  It was true that a gang
of platelayers was there, and that they had seen nothing, but it was
their custom to stand in the middle between the metals, and the open
carriage door was upon the far side, so that it was conceivable that
someone might have alighted unseen, as the darkness would by that time
be drawing in. A steep embankment would instantly screen anyone who
sprang out from the observation of the navvies.

The guard also deposed that there was a good deal of movement upon the
platform at Willesden Junction, and that though it was certain that no
one had either joined or left the train there, it was still quite
possible that some of the passengers might have changed unseen from one
compartment to another.  It was by no means uncommon for a gentleman to
finish his cigar in a smoking carriage and then to change to a clearer
atmosphere.  Supposing that the man with the black beard had done so at
Willesden (and the half-smoked cigar upon the floor seemed to favour
the supposition), he would naturally go into the nearest section, which
would bring him into the company of the two other actors in this drama.
Thus the first stage of the affair might be surmised without any great
breach of probability.  But what the second stage had been, or how the
final one had been arrived at, neither the guard nor the experienced
detective officers could suggest.

A careful examination of the line between Willesden and Rugby resulted
in one discovery which might or might not have a bearing upon the
tragedy.  Near Tring, at the very place where the train slowed down,
there was found at the bottom of the embankment a small pocket
Testament, very shabby and worn.  It was printed by the Bible Society
of London, and bore an inscription:  "From John to Alice.  Jan. 13th,
1856," upon the fly-leaf.  Underneath was written:  "James.  July 4th,
1859," and beneath that again: "Edward.  Nov. 1st, 1869," all the
entries being in the same handwriting.  This was the only clue, if it
could be called a clue, which the police obtained, and the coroner's
verdict of "Murder by a person or persons unknown" was the
unsatisfactory ending of a singular case.  Advertisement, rewards, and
inquiries proved equally fruitless, and nothing could be found which
was solid enough to form the basis for a profitable investigation.

It would be a mistake, however, to suppose that no theories were formed
to account for the facts.  On the contrary, the Press, both in England
and in America, teemed with suggestions and suppositions, most of which
were obviously absurd.  The fact that the watches were of American
make, and some peculiarities in connection with the gold stopping of
his front tooth, appeared to indicate that the deceased was a citizen
of the United States, though his linen, clothes and boots were
undoubtedly of British manufacture.  It was surmised, by some, that he
was concealed under the seat, and that, being discovered, he was for
some reason, possibly because he had overheard their guilty secrets,
put to death by his fellow-passengers.  When coupled with generalities
as to the ferocity and cunning of anarchical and other secret
societies, this theory sounded as plausible as any.

The fact that he should be without a ticket would be consistent with
the idea of concealment, and it was well known that women played a
prominent part in the Nihilistic propaganda.  On the other hand, it was
clear, from the guard's statement, that the man must have been hidden
there BEFORE the others arrived, and how unlikely the coincidence that
conspirators should stray exactly into the very compartment in which a
spy was already concealed! Besides, this explanation ignored the man in
the smoking carriage, and gave no reason at all for his simultaneous
disappearance.  The police had little difficulty in showing that such a
theory would not cover the facts, but they were unprepared in the
absence of evidence to advance any alternative explanation.

There was a letter in the Daily Gazette, over the signature of a
well-known criminal investigator, which gave rise to considerable
discussion at the time.  He had formed a hypothesis which had at least
ingenuity to recommend it, and I cannot do better than append it in his
own words.

"Whatever may be the truth," said he, "it must depend upon some bizarre
and rare combination of events, so we need have no hesitation in
postulating such events in our explanation.  In the absence of data we
must abandon the analytic or scientific method of investigation, and
must approach it in the synthetic fashion. In a word, instead of taking
known events and deducing from them what has occurred, we must build up
a fanciful explanation if it will only be consistent with known events.
We can then test this explanation by any fresh facts which may arise.
If they all fit into their places, the probability is that we are upon
the right track, and with each fresh fact this probability increases in
a geometrical progression until the evidence becomes final and
convincing.

"Now, there is one most remarkable and suggestive fact which has not
met with the attention which it deserves.  There is a local train
running through Harrow and King's Langley, which is timed in such a way
that the express must have overtaken it at or about the period when it
eased down its speed to eight miles an hour on account of the repairs
of the line.  The two trains would at that time be travelling in the
same direction at a similar rate of speed and upon parallel lines.  It
is within every one's experience how, under such circumstances, the
occupant of each carriage can see very plainly the passengers in the
other carriages opposite to him. The lamps of the express had been lit
at Willesden, so that each compartment was brightly illuminated, and
most visible to an observer from outside.

"Now, the sequence of events as I reconstruct them would be after this
fashion.  This young man with the abnormal number of watches was alone
in the carriage of the slow train.  His ticket, with his papers and
gloves and other things, was, we will suppose, on the seat beside him.
He was probably an American, and also probably a man of weak intellect.
The excessive wearing of jewellery is an early symptom in some forms of
mania.

"As he sat watching the carriages of the express which were (on account
of the state of the line) going at the same pace as himself, he
suddenly saw some people in it whom he knew.  We will suppose for the
sake of our theory that these people were a woman whom he loved and a
man whom he hated--and who in return hated him.  The young man was
excitable and impulsive.  He opened the door of his carriage, stepped
from the footboard of the local train to the footboard of the express,
opened the other door, and made his way into the presence of these two
people.  The feat (on the supposition that the trains were going at the
same pace) is by no means so perilous as it might appear.

"Having now got our young man, without his ticket, into the carriage in
which the elder man and the young woman are travelling, it is not
difficult to imagine that a violent scene ensued.  It is possible that
the pair were also Americans, which is the more probable as the man
carried a weapon--an unusual thing in England. If our supposition of
incipient mania is correct, the young man is likely to have assaulted
the other.  As the upshot of the quarrel the elder man shot the
intruder, and then made his escape from the carriage, taking the young
lady with him.  We will suppose that all this happened very rapidly,
and that the train was still going at so slow a pace that it was not
difficult for them to leave it.  A woman might leave a train going at
eight miles an hour.  As a matter of fact, we know that this woman DID
do so.

"And now we have to fit in the man in the smoking carriage. Presuming
that we have, up to this point, reconstructed the tragedy correctly, we
shall find nothing in this other man to cause us to reconsider our
conclusions.  According to my theory, this man saw the young fellow
cross from one train to the other, saw him open the door, heard the
pistol-shot, saw the two fugitives spring out on to the line, realized
that murder had been done, and sprang out himself in pursuit.  Why he
has never been heard of since--whether he met his own death in the
pursuit, or whether, as is more likely, he was made to realize that it
was not a case for his interference--is a detail which we have at
present no means of explaining.  I acknowledge that there are some
difficulties in the way.  At first sight, it might seem improbable that
at such a moment a murderer would burden himself in his flight with a
brown leather bag.  My answer is that he was well aware that if the bag
were found his identity would be established.  It was absolutely
necessary for him to take it with him.  My theory stands or falls upon
one point, and I call upon the railway company to make strict inquiry
as to whether a ticket was found unclaimed in the local train through
Harrow and King's Langley upon the 18th of March.  If such a ticket
were found my case is proved.  If not, my theory may still be the
correct one, for it is conceivable either that he travelled without a
ticket or that his ticket was lost."

To this elaborate and plausible hypothesis the answer of the police and
of the company was, first, that no such ticket was found; secondly,
that the slow train would never run parallel to the express; and,
thirdly, that the local train had been stationary in King's Langley
Station when the express, going at fifty miles an hour, had flashed
past it.  So perished the only satisfying explanation, and five years
have elapsed without supplying a new one.  Now, at last, there comes a
statement which covers all the facts, and which must be regarded as
authentic.  It took the shape of a letter dated from New York, and
addressed to the same criminal investigator whose theory I have quoted.
It is given here in extenso, with the exception of the two opening
paragraphs, which are personal in their nature:

"You'll excuse me if I'm not very free with names.  There's less reason
now than there was five years ago when mother was still living.  But
for all that, I had rather cover up our tracks all I can.  But I owe
you an explanation, for if your idea of it was wrong, it was a mighty
ingenious one all the same.  I'll have to go back a little so as you
may understand all about it.

"My people came from Bucks, England, and emigrated to the States in the
early fifties.  They settled in Rochester, in the State of New York,
where my father ran a large dry goods store. There were only two sons:
myself, James, and my brother, Edward. I was ten years older than my
brother, and after my father died I sort of took the place of a father
to him, as an elder brother would.  He was a bright, spirited boy, and
just one of the most beautiful creatures that ever lived.  But there
was always a soft spot in him, and it was like mould in cheese, for it
spread and spread, and nothing that you could do would stop it.  Mother
saw it just as clearly as I did, but she went on spoiling him all the
same, for he had such a way with him that you could refuse him nothing.
I did all I could to hold him in, and he hated me for my pains.

"At last he fairly got his head, and nothing that we could do would
stop him.  He got off into New York, and went rapidly from bad to
worse.  At first he was only fast, and then he was criminal; and then,
at the end of a year or two, he was one of the most notorious young
crooks in the city.  He had formed a friendship with Sparrow MacCoy,
who was at the head of his profession as a bunco-steerer, green
goodsman and general rascal. They took to card-sharping, and frequented
some of the best hotels in New York.  My brother was an excellent actor
(he might have made an honest name for himself if he had chosen), and
he would take the parts of a young Englishman of title, of a simple lad
from the West, or of a college undergraduate, whichever suited Sparrow
MacCoy's purpose.  And then one day he dressed himself as a girl, and
he carried it off so well, and made himself such a valuable decoy, that
it was their favourite game afterwards.  They had made it right with
Tammany and with the police, so it seemed as if nothing could ever stop
them, for those were in the days before the Lexow Commission, and if
you only had a pull, you could do pretty nearly everything you wanted.

"And nothing would have stopped them if they had only stuck to cards
and New York, but they must needs come up Rochester way, and forge a
name upon a cheque.  It was my brother that did it, though everyone
knew that it was under the influence of Sparrow MacCoy. I bought up
that cheque, and a pretty sum it cost me.  Then I went to my brother,
laid it before him on the table, and swore to him that I would
prosecute if he did not clear out of the country.  At first he simply
laughed.  I could not prosecute, he said, without breaking our mother's
heart, and he knew that I would not do that. I made him understand,
however, that our mother's heart was being broken in any case, and that
I had set firm on the point that I would rather see him in Rochester
gaol than in a New York hotel. So at last he gave in, and he made me a
solemn promise that he would see Sparrow MacCoy no more, that he would
go to Europe, and that he would turn his hand to any honest trade that
I helped him to get.  I took him down right away to an old family
friend, Joe Willson, who is an exporter of American watches and clocks,
and I got him to give Edward an agency in London, with a small salary
and a 15 per cent commission on all business.  His manner and
appearance were so good that he won the old man over at once, and
within a week he was sent off to London with a case full of samples.

"It seemed to me that this business of the cheque had really given my
brother a fright, and that there was some chance of his settling down
into an honest line of life.  My mother had spoken with him, and what
she said had touched him, for she had always been the best of mothers
to him and he had been the great sorrow of her life.  But I knew that
this man Sparrow MacCoy had a great influence over Edward and my chance
of keeping the lad straight lay in breaking the connection between
them.  I had a friend in the New York detective force, and through him
I kept a watch upon MacCoy. When, within a fortnight of my brother's
sailing, I heard that MacCoy had taken a berth in the Etruria, I was as
certain as if he had told me that he was going over to England for the
purpose of coaxing Edward back again into the ways that he had left.
In an instant I had resolved to go also, and to pit my influence
against MacCoy's.  I knew it was a losing fight, but I thought, and my
mother thought, that it was my duty.  We passed the last night together
in prayer for my success, and she gave me her own Testament that my
father had given her on the day of their marriage in the Old Country,
so that I might always wear it next my heart.

"I was a fellow-traveller, on the steamship, with Sparrow MacCoy, and
at least I had the satisfaction of spoiling his little game for the
voyage.  The very first night I went into the smoking-room, and found
him at the head of a card-table, with a half a dozen young fellows who
were carrying their full purses and their empty skulls over to Europe.
He was settling down for his harvest, and a rich one it would have
been.  But I soon changed all that.

"'Gentlemen,' said I, 'are you aware whom you are playing with?'

"'What's that to you?  You mind your own business!' said he, with an
oath.

"'Who is it, anyway?' asked one of the dudes.

"'He's Sparrow MacCoy, the most notorious card-sharper in the States.'

"Up he jumped with a bottle in his hand, but he remembered that he was
under the flag of the effete Old Country, where law and order run, and
Tammany has no pull.  Gaol and the gallows wait for violence and
murder, and there's no slipping out by the back door on board an ocean
liner.

"'Prove your words, you----!' said he.

"'I will!' said I.  'If you will turn up your right shirt-sleeve to the
shoulder, I will either prove my words or I will eat them.'

"He turned white and said not a word.  You see, I knew something of his
ways, and I was aware of that part of the mechanism which he and all
such sharpers use consists of an elastic down the arm with a clip just
above the wrist.  It is by means of this clip that they withdraw from
their hands the cards which they do not want, while they substitute
other cards from another hiding place.  I reckoned on it being there,
and it was.  He cursed me, slunk out of the saloon, and was hardly seen
again during the voyage.  For once, at any rate, I got level with
Mister Sparrow MacCoy.

"But he soon had his revenge upon me, for when it came to influencing
my brother he outweighed me every time.  Edward had kept himself
straight in London for the first few weeks, and had done some business
with his American watches, until this villain came across his path once
more.  I did my best, but the best was little enough.  The next thing I
heard there had been a scandal at one of the Northumberland Avenue
hotels: a traveller had been fleeced of a large sum by two confederate
card-sharpers, and the matter was in the hands of Scotland Yard.  The
first I learned of it was in the evening paper, and I was at once
certain that my brother and MacCoy were back at their old games.  I
hurried at once to Edward's lodgings.  They told me that he and a tall
gentleman (whom I recognized as MacCoy) had gone off together, and that
he had left the lodgings and taken his things with him.  The landlady
had heard them give several directions to the cabman, ending with
Euston Station, and she had accidentally overheard the tall gentleman
saying something about Manchester.  She believed that that was their
destination.

"A glance at the time-table showed me that the most likely train was at
five, though there was another at 4:35 which they might have caught.  I
had only time to get the later one, but found no sign of them either at
the depot or in the train.  They must have gone on by the earlier one,
so I determined to follow them to Manchester and search for them in the
hotels there. One last appeal to my brother by all that he owed to my
mother might even now be the salvation of him.  My nerves were
overstrung, and I lit a cigar to steady them.  At that moment, just as
the train was moving off, the door of my compartment was flung open,
and there were MacCoy and my brother on the platform.

"They were both disguised, and with good reason, for they knew that the
London police were after them.  MacCoy had a great astrakhan collar
drawn up, so that only his eyes and nose were showing.  My brother was
dressed like a woman, with a black veil half down his face, but of
course it did not deceive me for an instant, nor would it have done so
even if I had not known that he had often used such a dress before.  I
started up, and as I did so MacCoy recognized me.  He said something,
the conductor slammed the door, and they were shown into the next
compartment.  I tried to stop the train so as to follow them, but the
wheels were already moving, and it was too late.

"When we stopped at Willesden, I instantly changed my carriage. It
appears that I was not seen to do so, which is not surprising, as the
station was crowded with people.  MacCoy, of course, was expecting me,
and he had spent the time between Euston and Willesden in saying all he
could to harden my brother's heart and set him against me.  That is
what I fancy, for I had never found him so impossible to soften or to
move.  I tried this way and I tried that; I pictured his future in an
English gaol; I described the sorrow of his mother when I came back
with the news; I said everything to touch his heart, but all to no
purpose.  He sat there with a fixed sneer upon his handsome face, while
every now and then Sparrow MacCoy would throw in a taunt at me, or some
word of encouragement to hold my brother to his resolutions.

"'Why don't you run a Sunday-school?' he would say to me, and then, in
the same breath:  'He thinks you have no will of your own. He thinks
you are just the baby brother and that he can lead you where he likes.
He's only just finding out that you are a man as well as he.'

"It was those words of his which set me talking bitterly.  We had left
Willesden, you understand, for all this took some time. My temper got
the better of me, and for the first time in my life I let my brother
see the rough side of me.  Perhaps it would have been better had I done
so earlier and more often.

"'A man!' said I.  'Well, I'm glad to have your friend's assurance of
it, for no one would suspect it to see you like a boarding-school
missy.  I don't suppose in all this country there is a more
contemptible-looking creature than you are as you sit there with that
Dolly pinafore upon you.'  He coloured up at that, for he was a vain
man, and he winced from ridicule.

"'It's only a dust-cloak,' said he, and he slipped it off. 'One has to
throw the coppers off one's scent, and I had no other way to do it.'
He took his toque off with the veil attached, and he put both it and
the cloak into his brown bag.  'Anyway, I don't need to wear it until
the conductor comes round,' said he.

"'Nor then, either,' said I, and taking the bag I slung it with all my
force out of the window.  'Now,' said I, 'you'll never make a Mary Jane
of yourself while I can help it.  If nothing but that disguise stands
between you and a gaol, then to gaol you shall go.'

"That was the way to manage him.  I felt my advantage at once. His
supple nature was one which yielded to roughness far more readily than
to entreaty.  He flushed with shame, and his eyes filled with tears.
But MacCoy saw my advantage also, and was determined that I should not
pursue it.

"'He's my pard, and you shall not bully him,' he cried.

"'He's my brother, and you shall not ruin him,' said I.  'I believe a
spell of prison is the very best way of keeping you apart, and you
shall have it, or it will be no fault of mine.'

"'Oh, you would squeal, would you?' he cried, and in an instant he
whipped out his revolver.  I sprang for his hand, but saw that I was
too late, and jumped aside.  At the same instant he fired, and the
bullet which would have struck me passed through the heart of my
unfortunate brother.

"He dropped without a groan upon the floor of the compartment, and
MacCoy and I, equally horrified, knelt at each side of him, trying to
bring back some signs of life.  MacCoy still held the loaded revolver
in his hand, but his anger against me and my resentment towards him had
both for the moment been swallowed up in this sudden tragedy.  It was
he who first realized the situation. The train was for some reason
going very slowly at the moment, and he saw his opportunity for escape.
In an instant he had the door open, but I was as quick as he, and
jumping upon him the two of us fell off the footboard and rolled in
each other's arms down a steep embankment.  At the bottom I struck my
head against a stone, and I remembered nothing more.  When I came to
myself I was lying among some low bushes, not far from the railroad
track, and somebody was bathing my head with a wet handkerchief.  It
was Sparrow MacCoy.

"'I guess I couldn't leave you,' said he.  'I didn't want to have the
blood of two of you on my hands in one day.  You loved your brother,
I've no doubt; but you didn't love him a cent more than I loved him,
though you'll say that I took a queer way to show it.  Anyhow, it seems
a mighty empty world now that he is gone, and I don't care a
continental whether you give me over to the hangman or not.'

"He had turned his ankle in the fall, and there we sat, he with his
useless foot, and I with my throbbing head, and we talked and talked
until gradually my bitterness began to soften and to turn into
something like sympathy.  What was the use of revenging his death upon
a man who was as much stricken by that death as I was? And then, as my
wits gradually returned, I began to realize also that I could do
nothing against MacCoy which would not recoil upon my mother and
myself.  How could we convict him without a full account of my
brother's career being made public--the very thing which of all others
we wished to avoid?  It was really as much our interest as his to cover
the matter up, and from being an avenger of crime I found myself
changed to a conspirator against Justice. The place in which we found
ourselves was one of those pheasant preserves which are so common in
the Old Country, and as we groped our way through it I found myself
consulting the slayer of my brother as to how far it would be possible
to hush it up.

"I soon realized from what he said that unless there were some papers
of which we knew nothing in my brother's pockets, there was really no
possible means by which the police could identify him or learn how he
had got there.  His ticket was in MacCoy's pocket, and so was the
ticket for some baggage which they had left at the depot.  Like most
Americans, he had found it cheaper and easier to buy an outfit in
London than to bring one from New York, so that all his linen and
clothes were new and unmarked.  The bag, containing the dust-cloak,
which I had thrown out of the window, may have fallen among some
bramble patch where it is still concealed, or may have been carried off
by some tramp, or may have come into the possession of the police, who
kept the incident to themselves.  Anyhow, I have seen nothing about it
in the London papers.  As to the watches, they were a selection from
those which had been intrusted to him for business purposes.  It may
have been for the same business purposes that he was taking them to
Manchester, but--well, it's too late to enter into that.

"I don't blame the police for being at fault.  I don't see how it could
have been otherwise.  There was just one little clue that they might
have followed up, but it was a small one.  I mean that small, circular
mirror which was found in my brother's pocket.  It isn't a very common
thing for a young man to carry about with him, is it?  But a gambler
might have told you what such a mirror may mean to a card-sharper.  If
you sit back a little from the table, and lay the mirror, face upwards,
upon your lap, you can see, as you deal, every card that you give to
your adversary.  It is not hard to say whether you see a man or raise
him when you know his cards as well as your own.  It was as much a part
of a sharper's outfit as the elastic clip upon Sparrow MacCoy's arm.
Taking that, in connection with the recent frauds at the hotels, the
police might have got hold of one end of the string.

"I don't think there is much more for me to explain.  We got to a
village called Amersham that night in the character of two gentlemen
upon a walking tour, and afterwards we made our way quietly to London,
whence MacCoy went on to Cairo and I returned to New York.  My mother
died six months afterwards, and I am glad to say that to the day of her
death she never knew what happened.  She was always under the delusion
that Edward was earning an honest living in London, and I never had the
heart to tell her the truth. He never wrote; but, then, he never did
write at any time, so that made no difference.  His name was the last
upon her lips.

"There's just one other thing that I have to ask you, sir, and I should
take it as a kind return for all this explanation, if you could do it
for me.  You remember that Testament that was picked up.  I always
carried it in my inside pocket, and it must have come out in my fall.
I value it very highly, for it was the family book with my birth and my
brother's marked by my father in the beginning of it.  I wish you would
apply at the proper place and have it sent to me.  It can be of no
possible value to anyone else.  If you address it to X, Bassano's
Library, Broadway, New York, it is sure to come to hand."



The Japanned Box

It WAS a curious thing, said the private tutor; one of those grotesque
and whimsical incidents which occur to one as one goes through life.  I
lost the best situation which I am ever likely to have through it.  But
I am glad that I went to Thorpe Place, for I gained--well, as I tell
you the story you will learn what I gained.

I don't know whether you are familiar with that part of the Midlands
which is drained by the Avon.  It is the most English part of England.
Shakespeare, the flower of the whole race, was born right in the middle
of it.  It is a land of rolling pastures, rising in higher folds to the
westwards, until they swell into the Malvern Hills.  There are no
towns, but numerous villages, each with its grey Norman church.  You
have left the brick of the southern and eastern counties behind you,
and everything is stone--stone for the walls, and lichened slabs of
stone for the roofs.  It is all grim and solid and massive, as befits
the heart of a great nation.

It was in the middle of this country, not very far from Evesham, that
Sir John Bollamore lived in the old ancestral home of Thorpe Place, and
thither it was that I came to teach his two little sons.  Sir John was
a widower--his wife had died three years before--and he had been left
with these two lads aged eight and ten, and one dear little girl of
seven.  Miss Witherton, who is now my wife, was governess to this
little girl.  I was tutor to the two boys.  Could there be a more
obvious prelude to an engagement?  She governs me now, and I tutor two
little boys of our own.  But, there--I have already revealed what it
was which I gained in Thorpe Place!

It was a very, very old house, incredibly old--pre-Norman, some of
it--and the Bollamores claimed to have lived in that situation since
long before the Conquest.  It struck a chill to my heart when first I
came there, those enormously thick grey walls, the rude crumbling
stones, the smell as from a sick animal which exhaled from the rotting
plaster of the aged building.  But the modern wing was bright and the
garden was well kept.  No house could be dismal which had a pretty girl
inside it and such a show of roses in front.

Apart from a very complete staff of servants there were only four of us
in the household.  These were Miss Witherton, who was at that time
four-and-twenty and as pretty--well, as pretty as Mrs. Colmore is
now--myself, Frank Colmore, aged thirty, Mrs. Stevens, the housekeeper,
a dry, silent woman, and Mr. Richards, a tall military-looking man, who
acted as steward to the Bollamore estates.  We four always had our
meals together, but Sir John had his usually alone in the library.
Sometimes he joined us at dinner, but on the whole we were just as glad
when he did not.

For he was a very formidable person.  Imagine a man six feet three
inches in height, majestically built, with a high-nosed, aristocratic
face, brindled hair, shaggy eyebrows, a small, pointed Mephistophelian
beard, and lines upon his brow and round his eyes as deep as if they
had been carved with a penknife.  He had grey eyes, weary,
hopeless-looking eyes, proud and yet pathetic, eyes which claimed your
pity and yet dared you to show it.  His back was rounded with study,
but otherwise he was as fine a looking man of his age--five-and-fifty
perhaps--as any woman would wish to look upon.

But his presence was not a cheerful one.  He was always courteous,
always refined, but singularly silent and retiring.  I have never lived
so long with any man and known so little of him. If he were indoors he
spent his time either in his own small study in the Eastern Tower, or
in the library in the modern wing.  So regular was his routine that one
could always say at any hour exactly where he would be.  Twice in the
day he would visit his study, once after breakfast, and once about ten
at night.  You might set your watch by the slam of the heavy door.  For
the rest of the day he would be in his library--save that for an hour
or two in the afternoon he would take a walk or a ride, which was
solitary like the rest of his existence.  He loved his children, and
was keenly interested in the progress of their studies, but they were a
little awed by the silent, shaggy-browed figure, and they avoided him
as much as they could.  Indeed, we all did that.

It was some time before I came to know anything about the circumstances
of Sir John Bollamore's life, for Mrs. Stevens, the housekeeper, and
Mr. Richards, the land-steward, were too loyal to talk easily of their
employer's affairs.  As to the governess, she knew no more than I did,
and our common interest was one of the causes which drew us together.
At last, however, an incident occurred which led to a closer
acquaintance with Mr. Richards and a fuller knowledge of the life of
the man whom I served.

The immediate cause of this was no less than the falling of Master
Percy, the youngest of my pupils, into the mill-race, with imminent
danger both to his life and to mine, since I had to risk myself in
order to save him.  Dripping and exhausted--for I was far more spent
than the child--I was making for my room when Sir John, who had heard
the hubbub, opened the door of his little study and asked me what was
the matter.  I told him of the accident, but assured him that his child
was in no danger, while he listened with a rugged, immobile face, which
expressed in its intense eyes and tightened lips all the emotion which
he tried to conceal.

"One moment!  Step in here!  Let me have the details!" said he, turning
back through the open door.

And so I found myself within that little sanctum, inside which, as I
afterwards learned, no other foot had for three years been set save
that of the old servant who cleaned it out.  It was a round room,
conforming to the shape of the tower in which it was situated, with a
low ceiling, a single narrow, ivy-wreathed window, and the simplest of
furniture.  An old carpet, a single chair, a deal table, and a small
shelf of books made up the whole contents. On the table stood a
full-length photograph of a woman--I took no particular notice of the
features, but I remember, that a certain gracious gentleness was the
prevailing impression.  Beside it were a large black japanned box and
one or two bundles of letters or papers fastened together with elastic
bands.

Our interview was a short one, for Sir John Bollamore perceived that I
was soaked, and that I should change without delay.  The incident led,
however, to an instructive talk with Richards, the agent, who had never
penetrated into the chamber which chance had opened to me.  That very
afternoon he came to me, all curiosity, and walked up and down the
garden path with me, while my two charges played tennis upon the lawn
beside us.

"You hardly realize the exception which has been made in your favour,"
said he.  "That room has been kept such a mystery, and Sir John's
visits to it have been so regular and consistent, that an almost
superstitious feeling has arisen about it in the household. I assure
you that if I were to repeat to you the tales which are flying about,
tales of mysterious visitors there, and of voices overheard by the
servants, you might suspect that Sir John had relapsed into his old
ways."

"Why do you say relapsed?" I asked.

He looked at me in surprise.

"Is it possible," said he, "that Sir John Bollamore's previous history
is unknown to you?"

"Absolutely."

"You astound me.  I thought that every man in England knew something of
his antecedents.  I should not mention the matter if it were not that
you are now one of ourselves, and that the facts might come to your
ears in some harsher form if I were silent upon them.  I always took it
for granted that you knew that you were in the service of 'Devil'
Bollamore."

"But why 'Devil'?" I asked.

"Ah, you are young and the world moves fast, but twenty years ago the
name of 'Devil' Bollamore was one of the best known in London.  He was
the leader of the fastest set, bruiser, driver, gambler, drunkard--a
survival of the old type, and as bad as the worst of them."

I stared at him in amazement.

"What!" I cried, "that quiet, studious, sad-faced man?"

"The greatest rip and debauchee in England!  All between ourselves,
Colmore.  But you understand now what I mean when I say that a woman's
voice in his room might even now give rise to suspicions."

"But what can have changed him so?"

"Little Beryl Clare, when she took the risk of becoming his wife.  That
was the turning point.  He had got so far that his own fast set had
thrown him over.  There is a world of difference, you know, between a
man who drinks and a drunkard.  They all drink, but they taboo a
drunkard.  He had become a slave to it--hopeless and helpless.  Then
she stepped in, saw the possibilities of a fine man in the wreck, took
her chance in marrying him though she might have had the pick of a
dozen, and, by devoting her life to it, brought him back to manhood and
decency.  You have observed that no liquor is ever kept in the house.
There never has been any since her foot crossed its threshold.  A drop
of it would be like blood to a tiger even now."

"Then her influence still holds him?"

"That is the wonder of it.  When she died three years ago, we all
expected and feared that he would fall back into his old ways. She
feared it herself, and the thought gave a terror to death, for she was
like a guardian angel to that man, and lived only for the one purpose.
By the way, did you see a black japanned box in his room?"

"Yes."

"I fancy it contains her letters.  If ever he has occasion to be away,
if only for a single night, he invariably takes his black japanned box
with him.  Well, well, Colmore, perhaps I have told you rather more
than I should, but I shall expect you to reciprocate if anything of
interest should come to your knowledge."

I could see that the worthy man was consumed with curiosity and just a
little piqued that I, the newcomer, should have been the first to
penetrate into the untrodden chamber.  But the fact raised me in his
esteem, and from that time onwards I found myself upon more
confidential terms with him.

And now the silent and majestic figure of my employer became an object
of greater interest to me.  I began to understand that strangely human
look in his eyes, those deep lines upon his care-worn face.  He was a
man who was fighting a ceaseless battle, holding at arm's length, from
morning till night, a horrible adversary who was forever trying to
close with him--an adversary which would destroy him body and soul
could it but fix its claws once more upon him.  As I watched the grim,
round-backed figure pacing the corridor or walking in the garden, this
imminent danger seemed to take bodily shape, and I could almost fancy
that I saw this most loathsome and dangerous of all the fiends
crouching closely in his very shadow, like a half-cowed beast which
slinks beside its keeper, ready at any unguarded moment to spring at
his throat.  And the dead woman, the woman who had spent her life in
warding off this danger, took shape also to my imagination, and I saw
her as a shadowy but beautiful presence which intervened for ever with
arms uplifted to screen the man whom she loved.

In some subtle way he divined the sympathy which I had for him, and he
showed in his own silent fashion that he appreciated it.  He even
invited me once to share his afternoon walk, and although no word
passed between us on this occasion, it was a mark of confidence which
he had never shown to anyone before.  He asked me also to index his
library (it was one of the best private libraries in England), and I
spent many hours in the evening in his presence, if not in his society,
he reading at his desk and I sitting in a recess by the window reducing
to order the chaos which existed among his books.  In spite of these
close relations I was never again asked to enter the chamber in the
turret.

And then came my revulsion of feeling.  A single incident changed all
my sympathy to loathing, and made me realize that my employer still
remained all that he had ever been, with the additional vice of
hypocrisy.  What happened was as follows.

One evening Miss Witherton had gone down to Broadway, the neighbouring
village, to sing at a concert for some charity, and I, according to my
promise, had walked over to escort her back.  The drive sweeps round
under the eastern turret, and I observed as I passed that the light was
lit in the circular room.  It was a summer evening, and the window,
which was a little higher than our heads, was open.  We were, as it
happened, engrossed in our own conversation at the moment and we had
paused upon the lawn which skirts the old turret, when suddenly
something broke in upon our talk and turned our thoughts away from our
own affairs.

It was a voice--the voice undoubtedly of a woman.  It was low--so low
that it was only in that still night air that we could have heard it,
but, hushed as it was, there was no mistaking its feminine timbre.  It
spoke hurriedly, gaspingly for a few sentences, and then was silent--a
piteous, breathless, imploring sort of voice.  Miss Witherton and I
stood for an instant staring at each other.  Then we walked quickly in
the direction of the hall-door.

"It came through the window," I said.

"We must not play the part of eavesdroppers," she answered. "We must
forget that we have ever heard it."

There was an absence of surprise in her manner which suggested a new
idea to me.

"You have heard it before," I cried.

"I could not help it.  My own room is higher up on the same turret.  It
has happened frequently."

"Who can the woman be?"

"I have no idea.  I had rather not discuss it."

Her voice was enough to show me what she thought.  But granting that
our employer led a double and dubious life, who could she be, this
mysterious woman who kept him company in the old tower? I knew from my
own inspection how bleak and bare a room it was. She certainly did not
live there.  But in that case where did she come from?  It could not be
anyone of the household.  They were all under the vigilant eyes of Mrs.
Stevens.  The visitor must come from without.  But how?

And then suddenly I remembered how ancient this building was, and how
probable that some mediaeval passage existed in it.  There is hardly an
old castle without one.  The mysterious room was the basement of the
turret, so that if there were anything of the sort it would open
through the floor.  There were numerous cottages in the immediate
vicinity.  The other end of the secret passage might lie among some
tangle of bramble in the neighbouring copse.  I said nothing to anyone,
but I felt that the secret of my employer lay within my power.

And the more convinced I was of this the more I marvelled at the manner
in which he concealed his true nature.  Often as I watched his austere
figure, I asked myself if it were indeed possible that such a man
should be living this double life, and I tried to persuade myself that
my suspicions might after all prove to be ill-founded.  But there was
the female voice, there was the secret nightly rendezvous in the
turret-chamber--how could such facts admit of an innocent
interpretation.  I conceived a horror of the man.  I was filled with
loathing at his deep, consistent hypocrisy.

Only once during all those months did I ever see him without that sad
but impassive mask which he usually presented towards his fellow-man.
For an instant I caught a glimpse of those volcanic fires which he had
damped down so long.  The occasion was an unworthy one, for the object
of his wrath was none other than the aged charwoman whom I have already
mentioned as being the one person who was allowed within his mysterious
chamber.  I was passing the corridor which led to the turret--for my
own room lay in that direction--when I heard a sudden, startled scream,
and merged in it the husky, growling note of a man who is inarticulate
with passion.  It was the snarl of a furious wild beast.  Then I heard
his voice thrilling with anger.  "You would dare!" he cried. "You would
dare to disobey my directions!"  An instant later the charwoman passed
me, flying down the passage, white-faced and tremulous, while the
terrible voice thundered behind her.  "Go to Mrs. Stevens for your
money!  Never set foot in Thorpe Place again!"  Consumed with
curiosity, I could not help following the woman, and found her round
the corner leaning against the wall and palpitating like a frightened
rabbit.

"What is the matter, Mrs. Brown?" I asked.

"It's master!" she gasped.  "Oh, 'ow 'e frightened me!  If you had seen
'is eyes, Mr. Colmore, sir.  I thought 'e would 'ave been the death of
me."

"But what had you done?"

"Done, sir!  Nothing.  At least nothing to make so much of. Just laid
my 'and on that black box of 'is--'adn't even opened it, when in 'e
came and you 'eard the way 'e went on.  I've lost my place, and glad I
am of it, for I would never trust myself within reach of 'im again."

So it was the japanned box which was the cause of this outburst--the
box from which he would never permit himself to be separated.  What was
the connection, or was there any connection between this and the secret
visits of the lady whose voice I had overheard?  Sir John Bollamore's
wrath was enduring as well as fiery, for from that day Mrs. Brown, the
charwoman, vanished from our ken, and Thorpe Place knew her no more.

And now I wish to tell you the singular chance which solved all these
strange questions and put my employer's secret in my possession.  The
story may leave you with some lingering doubts as to whether my
curiosity did not get the better of my honour, and whether I did not
condescend to play the spy.  If you choose to think so I cannot help
it, but can only assure you that, improbable as it may appear, the
matter came about exactly as I describe it.

The first stage in this denouement was that the small room in the
turret became uninhabitable.  This occurred through the fall of the
worm-eaten oaken beam which supported the ceiling.  Rotten with age, it
snapped in the middle one morning, and brought down a quantity of
plaster with it.  Fortunately Sir John was not in the room at the time.
His precious box was rescued from amongst the debris and brought into
the library, where, henceforward, it was locked within his bureau.  Sir
John took no steps to repair the damage, and I never had an opportunity
of searching for that secret passage, the existence of which I had
surmised.  As to the lady, I had thought that this would have brought
her visits to an end, had I not one evening heard Mr. Richards asking
Mrs. Stevens who the woman was whom he had overheard talking to Sir
John in the library. I could not catch her reply, but I saw from her
manner that it was not the first time that she had had to answer or
avoid the same question.

"You've heard the voice, Colmore?" said the agent.

I confessed that I had.

"And what do YOU think of it?"

I shrugged my shoulders, and remarked that it was no business of mine.

"Come, come, you are just as curious as any of us.  Is it a woman or
not?"

"It is certainly a woman."

"Which room did you hear it from?"

"From the turret-room, before the ceiling fell."

"But I heard it from the library only last night.  I passed the doors
as I was going to bed, and I heard something wailing and praying just
as plainly as I hear you.  It may be a woman----"

"Why, what else COULD it be?"

He looked at me hard.

"There are more things in heaven and earth," said he.  "If it is a
woman, how does she get there?"

"I don't know."

"No, nor I.  But if it is the other thing--but there, for a practical
business man at the end of the nineteenth century this is rather a
ridiculous line of conversation."  He turned away, but I saw that he
felt even more than he had said.  To all the old ghost stories of
Thorpe Place a new one was being added before our very eyes.  It may by
this time have taken its permanent place, for though an explanation
came to me, it never reached the others.

And my explanation came in this way.  I had suffered a sleepless night
from neuralgia, and about midday I had taken a heavy dose of chlorodyne
to alleviate the pain.  At that time I was finishing the indexing of
Sir John Bollamore's library, and it was my custom to work there from
five till seven.  On this particular day I struggled against the double
effect of my bad night and the narcotic.  I have already mentioned that
there was a recess in the library, and in this it was my habit to work.
I settled down steadily to my task, but my weariness overcame me and,
falling back upon the settee, I dropped into a heavy sleep.

How long I slept I do not know, but it was quite dark when I awoke.
Confused by the chlorodyne which I had taken, I lay motionless in a
semi-conscious state.  The great room with its high walls covered with
books loomed darkly all round me.  A dim radiance from the moonlight
came through the farther window, and against this lighter background I
saw that Sir John Bollamore was sitting at his study table.  His
well-set head and clearly cut profile were sharply outlined against the
glimmering square behind him.  He bent as I watched him, and I heard
the sharp turning of a key and the rasping of metal upon metal.  As if
in a dream I was vaguely conscious that this was the japanned box which
stood in front of him, and that he had drawn something out of it,
something squat and uncouth, which now lay before him upon the table.
I never realized--it never occurred to my bemuddled and torpid brain
that I was intruding upon his privacy, that he imagined himself to be
alone in the room.  And then, just as it rushed upon my horrified
perceptions, and I had half risen to announce my presence, I heard a
strange, crisp, metallic clicking, and then the voice.

Yes, it was a woman's voice; there could not be a doubt of it. But a
voice so charged with entreaty and with yearning love, that it will
ring for ever in my ears.  It came with a curious faraway tinkle, but
every word was clear, though faint--very faint, for they were the last
words of a dying woman.

"I am not really gone, John," said the thin, gasping voice.  "I am here
at your very elbow, and shall be until we meet once more. I die happy
to think that morning and night you will hear my voice. Oh, John, be
strong, be strong, until we meet again."

I say that I had risen in order to announce my presence, but I could
not do so while the voice was sounding.  I could only remain half
lying, half sitting, paralysed, astounded, listening to those yearning
distant musical words.  And he--he was so absorbed that even if I had
spoken he might not have heard me.  But with the silence of the voice
came my half articulated apologies and explanations.  He sprang across
the room, switched on the electric light, and in its white glare I saw
him, his eyes gleaming with anger, his face twisted with passion, as
the hapless charwoman may have seen him weeks before.

"Mr. Colmore!" he cried.  "You here!  What is the meaning of this, sir?"

With halting words I explained it all, my neuralgia, the narcotic, my
luckless sleep and singular awakening.  As he listened the glow of
anger faded from his face, and the sad, impassive mask closed once more
over his features.

"My secret is yours, Mr. Colmore," said he.  "I have only myself to
blame for relaxing my precautions.  Half confidences are worse than no
confidences, and so you may know all since you know so much.  The story
may go where you will when I have passed away, but until then I rely
upon your sense of honour that no human soul shall hear it from your
lips.  I am proud still--God help me!--or, at least, I am proud enough
to resent that pity which this story would draw upon me.  I have smiled
at envy, and disregarded hatred, but pity is more than I can tolerate.

"You have heard the source from which the voice comes--that voice which
has, as I understand, excited so much curiosity in my household.  I am
aware of the rumours to which it has given rise. These speculations,
whether scandalous or superstitious, are such as I can disregard and
forgive.  What I should never forgive would be a disloyal spying and
eavesdropping in order to satisfy an illicit curiosity.  But of that,
Mr. Colmore, I acquit you.

"When I was a young man, sir, many years younger than you are now, I
was launched upon town without a friend or adviser, and with a purse
which brought only too many false friends and false advisers to my
side.  I drank deeply of the wine of life--if there is a man living who
has drunk more deeply he is not a man whom I envy.  My purse suffered,
my character suffered, my constitution suffered, stimulants became a
necessity to me, I was a creature from whom my memory recoils.  And it
was at that time, the time of my blackest degradation, that God sent
into my life the gentlest, sweetest spirit that ever descended as a
ministering angel from above.  She loved me, broken as I was, loved me,
and spent her life in making a man once more of that which had degraded
itself to the level of the beasts.

"But a fell disease struck her, and she withered away before my eyes.
In the hour of her agony it was never of herself, of her own sufferings
and her own death that she thought.  It was all of me.  The one pang
which her fate brought to her was the fear that when her influence was
removed I should revert to that which I had been.  It was in vain that
I made oath to her that no drop of wine would ever cross my lips.  She
knew only too well the hold that the devil had upon me--she who had
striven so to loosen it--and it haunted her night and day the thought
that my soul might again be within his grip.

"It was from some friend's gossip of the sick room that she heard of
this invention--this phonograph--and with the quick insight of a loving
woman she saw how she might use it for her ends.  She sent me to London
to procure the best which money could buy.  With her dying breath she
gasped into it the words which have held me straight ever since.
Lonely and broken, what else have I in all the world to uphold me?  But
it is enough.  Please God, I shall face her without shame when He is
pleased to reunite us! That is my secret, Mr. Colmore, and whilst I
live I leave it in your keeping."



The Black Doctor

Bishop's Crossing is a small village lying ten miles in a
south-westerly direction from Liverpool.  Here in the early seventies
there settled a doctor named Aloysius Lana.  Nothing was known locally
either of his antecedents or of the reasons which had prompted him to
come to this Lancashire hamlet.  Two facts only were certain about him;
the one that he had gained his medical qualification with some
distinction at Glasgow; the other that he came undoubtedly of a
tropical race, and was so dark that he might almost have had a strain
of the Indian in his composition. His predominant features were,
however, European, and he possessed a stately courtesy and carriage
which suggested a Spanish extraction.  A swarthy skin, raven-black
hair, and dark, sparkling eyes under a pair of heavily-tufted brows
made a strange contrast to the flaxen or chestnut rustics of England,
and the newcomer was soon known as "The Black Doctor of Bishop's
Crossing."  At first it was a term of ridicule and reproach; as the
years went on it became a title of honour which was familiar to the
whole countryside, and extended far beyond the narrow confines of the
village.

For the newcomer proved himself to be a capable surgeon and an
accomplished physician.  The practice of that district had been in the
hands of Edward Rowe, the son of Sir William Rowe, the Liverpool
consultant, but he had not inherited the talents of his father, and Dr.
Lana, with his advantages of presence and of manner, soon beat him out
of the field.  Dr. Lana's social success was as rapid as his
professional.  A remarkable surgical cure in the case of the Hon. James
Lowry, the second son of Lord Belton, was the means of introducing him
to county society, where he became a favourite through the charm of his
conversation and the elegance of his manners.  An absence of
antecedents and of relatives is sometimes an aid rather than an
impediment to social advancement, and the distinguished individuality
of the handsome doctor was its own recommendation.

His patients had one fault--and one fault only--to find with him.  He
appeared to be a confirmed bachelor.  This was the more remarkable
since the house which he occupied was a large one, and it was known
that his success in practice had enabled him to save considerable sums.
At first the local matchmakers were continually coupling his name with
one or other of the eligible ladies, but as years passed and Dr. Lana
remained unmarried, it came to be generally understood that for some
reason he must remain a bachelor.  Some even went so far as to assert
that he was already married, and that it was in order to escape the
consequence of an early misalliance that he had buried himself at
Bishop's Crossing. And, then, just as the matchmakers had finally given
him up in despair, his engagement was suddenly announced to Miss
Frances Morton, of Leigh Hall.

Miss Morton was a young lady who was well known upon the country-side,
her father, James Haldane Morton, having been the Squire of Bishop's
Crossing.  Both her parents were, however, dead, and she lived with her
only brother, Arthur Morton, who had inherited the family estate.  In
person Miss Morton was tall and stately, and she was famous for her
quick, impetuous nature and for her strength of character.  She met Dr.
Lana at a garden-party, and a friendship, which quickly ripened into
love, sprang up between them.  Nothing could exceed their devotion to
each other.  There was some discrepancy in age, he being thirty-seven,
and she twenty-four; but, save in that one respect, there was no
possible objection to be found with the match.  The engagement was in
February, and it was arranged that the marriage should take place in
August.

Upon the 3rd of June Dr. Lana received a letter from abroad. In a small
village the postmaster is also in a position to be the gossip-master,
and Mr. Bankley, of Bishop's Crossing, had many of the secrets of his
neighbours in his possession.  Of this particular letter he remarked
only that it was in a curious envelope, that it was in a man's
handwriting, that the postscript was Buenos Ayres, and the stamp of the
Argentine Republic.  It was the first letter which he had ever known
Dr. Lana to have from abroad and this was the reason why his attention
was particularly called to it before he handed it to the local postman.
It was delivered by the evening delivery of that date.

Next morning--that is, upon the 4th of June--Dr. Lana called upon Miss
Morton, and a long interview followed, from which he was observed to
return in a state of great agitation.  Miss Morton remained in her room
all that day, and her maid found her several times in tears.  In the
course of a week it was an open secret to the whole village that the
engagement was at an end, that Dr. Lana had behaved shamefully to the
young lady, and that Arthur Morton, her brother, was talking of
horse-whipping him.  In what particular respect the doctor had behaved
badly was unknown--some surmised one thing and some another; but it was
observed, and taken as the obvious sign of a guilty conscience, that he
would go for miles round rather than pass the windows of Leigh Hall,
and that he gave up attending morning service upon Sundays where he
might have met the young lady.  There was an advertisement also in the
Lancet as to the sale of a practice which mentioned no names, but which
was thought by some to refer to Bishop's Crossing, and to mean that Dr.
Lana was thinking of abandoning the scene of his success.  Such was the
position of affairs when, upon the evening of Monday, June 21st, there
came a fresh development which changed what had been a mere village
scandal into a tragedy which arrested the attention of the whole
nation.  Some detail is necessary to cause the facts of that evening to
present their full significance.

The sole occupants of the doctor's house were his housekeeper, an
elderly and most respectable woman, named Martha Woods, and a young
servant--Mary Pilling.  The coachman and the surgery-boy slept out.  It
was the custom of the doctor to sit at night in his study, which was
next the surgery in the wing of the house which was farthest from the
servants' quarters.  This side of the house had a door of its own for
the convenience of patients, so that it was possible for the doctor to
admit and receive a visitor there without the knowledge of anyone.  As
a matter of fact, when patients came late it was quite usual for him to
let them in and out by the surgery entrance, for the maid and the
housekeeper were in the habit of retiring early.

On this particular night Martha Woods went into the doctor's study at
half-past nine, and found him writing at his desk.  She bade him good
night, sent the maid to bed, and then occupied herself until a quarter
to eleven in household matters.  It was striking eleven upon the hall
clock when she went to her own room. She had been there about a quarter
of an hour or twenty minutes when she heard a cry or call, which
appeared to come from within the house.  She waited some time, but it
was not repeated.  Much alarmed, for the sound was loud and urgent, she
put on a dressing-gown, and ran at the top of her speed to the doctor's
study.

"Who's there?" cried a voice, as she tapped at the door.

"I am here, sir--Mrs. Woods."

"I beg that you will leave me in peace.  Go back to your room this
instant!" cried the voice, which was, to the best of her belief, that
of her master.  The tone was so harsh and so unlike her master's usual
manner, that she was surprised and hurt.

"I thought I heard you calling, sir," she explained, but no answer was
given to her.  Mrs. Woods looked at the clock as she returned to her
room, and it was then half-past eleven.

At some period between eleven and twelve (she could not be positive as
to the exact hour) a patient called upon the doctor and was unable to
get any reply from him.  This late visitor was Mrs. Madding, the wife
of the village grocer, who was dangerously ill of typhoid fever.  Dr.
Lana had asked her to look in the last thing and let him know how her
husband was progressing.  She observed that the light was burning in
the study, but having knocked several times at the surgery door without
response, she concluded that the doctor had been called out, and so
returned home.

There is a short, winding drive with a lamp at the end of it leading
down from the house to the road.  As Mrs. Madding emerged from the gate
a man was coming along the footpath.  Thinking that it might be Dr.
Lana returning from some professional visit, she waited for him, and
was surprised to see that it was Mr. Arthur Morton, the young squire.
In the light of the lamp she observed that his manner was excited, and
that he carried in his hand a heavy hunting-crop.  He was turning in at
the gate when she addressed him.

"The doctor is not in, sir," said she.

"How do you know that?" he asked harshly.

"I have been to the surgery door, sir."

"I see a light," said the young squire, looking up the drive. "That is
in his study, is it not?"

"Yes, sir; but I am sure that he is out."

"Well, he must come in again," said young Morton, and passed through
the gate while Mrs. Madding went upon her homeward way.

At three o'clock that morning her husband suffered a sharp relapse, and
she was so alarmed by his symptoms that she determined to call the
doctor without delay.  As she passed through the gate she was surprised
to see someone lurking among the laurel bushes. It was certainly a man,
and to the best of her belief Mr. Arthur Morton.  Preoccupied with her
own troubles, she gave no particular attention to the incident, but
hurried on upon her errand.

When she reached the house she perceived to her surprise that the light
was still burning in the study.  She therefore tapped at the surgery
door.  There was no answer.  She repeated the knocking several times
without effect.  It appeared to her to be unlikely that the doctor
would either go to bed or go out leaving so brilliant a light behind
him, and it struck Mrs. Madding that it was possible that he might have
dropped asleep in his chair.  She tapped at the study window,
therefore, but without result.  Then, finding that there was an opening
between the curtain and the woodwork, she looked through.

The small room was brilliantly lighted from a large lamp on the central
table, which was littered with the doctor's books and instruments.  No
one was visible, nor did she see anything unusual, except that in the
farther shadow thrown by the table a dingy white glove was lying upon
the carpet.  And then suddenly, as her eyes became more accustomed to
the light, a boot emerged from the other end of the shadow, and she
realized, with a thrill of horror, that what she had taken to be a
glove was the hand of a man, who was prostrate upon the floor.
Understanding that something terrible had occurred, she rang at the
front door, roused Mrs. Woods, the housekeeper, and the two women made
their way into the study, having first dispatched the maidservant to
the police-station.

At the side of the table, away from the window, Dr. Lana was discovered
stretched upon his back and quite dead.  It was evident that he had
been subjected to violence, for one of his eyes was blackened and there
were marks of bruises about his face and neck.  A slight thickening and
swelling of his features appeared to suggest that the cause of his
death had been strangulation.  He was dressed in his usual professional
clothes, but wore cloth slippers, the soles of which were perfectly
clean.  The carpet was marked all over, especially on the side of the
door, with traces of dirty boots, which were presumably left by the
murderer.  It was evident that someone had entered by the surgery door,
had killed the doctor, and had then made his escape unseen.  That the
assailant was a man was certain, from the size of the footprints and
from the nature of the injuries.  But beyond that point the police
found it very difficult to go.

There were no signs of robbery, and the doctor's gold watch was safe in
his pocket.  He kept a heavy cash-box in the room, and this was
discovered to be locked but empty.  Mrs. Woods had an impression that a
large sum was usually kept there, but the doctor had paid a heavy corn
bill in cash only that very day, and it was conjectured that it was to
this and not to a robber that the emptiness of the box was due.  One
thing in the room was missing--but that one thing was suggestive.  The
portrait of Miss Morton, which had always stood upon the side-table,
had been taken from its frame, and carried off.  Mrs. Woods had
observed it there when she waited upon her employer that evening, and
now it was gone.  On the other hand, there was picked up from the floor
a green eye-patch, which the housekeeper could not remember to have
seen before.  Such a patch might, however, be in the possession of a
doctor, and there was nothing to indicate that it was in any way
connected with the crime.

Suspicion could only turn in one direction, and Arthur Morton, the
young squire, was immediately arrested.  The evidence against him was
circumstantial, but damning.  He was devoted to his sister, and it was
shown that since the rupture between her and Dr. Lana he had been heard
again and again to express himself in the most vindictive terms towards
her former lover.  He had, as stated, been seen somewhere about eleven
o'clock entering the doctor's drive with a hunting-crop in his hand.
He had then, according to the theory of the police, broken in upon the
doctor, whose exclamation of fear or of anger had been loud enough to
attract the attention of Mrs. Woods.  When Mrs. Woods descended, Dr.
Lana had made up his mind to talk it over with his visitor, and had,
therefore, sent his housekeeper back to her room.  This conversation
had lasted a long time, had become more and more fiery, and had ended
by a personal struggle, in which the doctor lost his life.  The fact,
revealed by a post-mortem, that his heart was much diseased--an ailment
quite unsuspected during his life--would make it possible that death
might in his case ensue from injuries which would not be fatal to a
healthy man.  Arthur Morton had then removed his sister's photograph,
and had made his way homeward, stepping aside into the laurel bushes to
avoid Mrs. Madding at the gate.  This was the theory of the
prosecution, and the case which they presented was a formidable one.

On the other hand, there were some strong points for the defence.
Morton was high-spirited and impetuous, like his sister, but he was
respected and liked by everyone, and his frank and honest nature seemed
to be incapable of such a crime.  His own explanation was that he was
anxious to have a conversation with Dr. Lana about some urgent family
matters (from first to last he refused even to mention the name of his
sister).  He did not attempt to deny that this conversation would
probably have been of an unpleasant nature.  He had heard from a
patient that the doctor was out, and he therefore waited until about
three in the morning for his return, but as he had seen nothing of him
up to that hour, he had given it up and had returned home.  As to his
death, he knew no more about it than the constable who arrested him.
He had formerly been an intimate friend of the deceased man; but
circumstances, which he would prefer not to mention, had brought about
a change in his sentiments.

There were several facts which supported his innocence.  It was certain
that Dr. Lana was alive and in his study at half-past eleven o'clock.
Mrs. Woods was prepared to swear that it was at that hour that she had
heard his voice.  The friends of the prisoner contended that it was
probable that at that time Dr. Lana was not alone.  The sound which had
originally attracted the attention of the housekeeper, and her master's
unusual impatience that she should leave him in peace, seemed to point
to that.  If this were so then it appeared to be probable that he had
met his end between the moment when the housekeeper heard his voice and
the time when Mrs. Madding made her first call and found it impossible
to attract his attention.  But if this were the time of his death, then
it was certain that Mr. Arthur Morton could not be guilty, as it was
AFTER this that she had met the young squire at the gate.

If this hypothesis were correct, and someone was with Dr. Lana before
Mrs. Madding met Mr. Arthur Morton, then who was this someone, and what
motives had he for wishing evil to the doctor? It was universally
admitted that if the friends of the accused could throw light upon
this, they would have gone a long way towards establishing his
innocence.  But in the meanwhile it was open to the public to say--as
they did say--that there was no proof that anyone had been there at all
except the young squire; while, on the other hand, there was ample
proof that his motives in going were of a sinister kind.  When Mrs.
Madding called, the doctor might have retired to his room, or he might,
as she thought at the time, have gone out and returned afterwards to
find Mr. Arthur Morton waiting for him.  Some of the supporters of the
accused laid stress upon the fact that the photograph of his sister
Frances, which had been removed from the doctor's room, had not been
found in her brother's possession.  This argument, however, did not
count for much, as he had ample time before his arrest to burn it or to
destroy it.  As to the only positive evidence in the case--the muddy
footmarks upon the floor--they were so blurred by the softness of the
carpet that it was impossible to make any trustworthy deduction from
them.  The most that could be said was that their appearance was not
inconsistent with the theory that they were made by the accused, and it
was further shown that his boots were very muddy upon that night.
There had been a heavy shower in the afternoon, and all boots were
probably in the same condition.

Such is a bald statement of the singular and romantic series of events
which centred public attention upon this Lancashire tragedy. The
unknown origin of the doctor, his curious and distinguished
personality, the position of the man who was accused of the murder, and
the love affair which had preceded the crimes all combined to make the
affair one of those dramas which absorb the whole interest of a nation.
Throughout the three kingdoms men discussed the case of the Black
Doctor of Bishop's Crossing, and many were the theories put forward to
explain the facts; but it may safely be said that among them all there
was not one which prepared the minds of the public for the
extraordinary sequel, which caused so much excitement upon the first
day of the trial, and came to a climax upon the second.  The long files
of the Lancaster Weekly with their report of the case lie before me as
I write, but I must content myself with a synopsis of the case up to
the point when, upon the evening of the first day, the evidence of Miss
Frances Morton threw a singular light upon the case.

Mr. Porlock Carr, the counsel for the prosecution, had marshalled his
facts with his usual skill, and as the day wore on, it became more and
more evident how difficult was the task which Mr. Humphrey, who had
been retained for the defence, had before him.  Several witnesses were
put up to swear to the intemperate expressions which the young squire
had been heard to utter about the doctor, and the fiery manner in which
he resented the alleged ill-treatment of his sister.  Mrs. Madding
repeated her evidence as to the visit which had been paid late at night
by the prisoner to the deceased, and it was shown by another witness
that the prisoner was aware that the doctor was in the habit of sitting
up alone in this isolated wing of the house, and that he had chosen
this very late hour to call because he knew that his victim would then
be at his mercy.  A servant at the squire's house was compelled to
admit that he had heard his master return about three that morning,
which corroborated Mrs. Madding's statement that she had seen him among
the laurel bushes near the gate upon the occasion of her second visit.
The muddy boots and an alleged similarity in the footprints were duly
dwelt upon, and it was felt when the case for the prosecution had been
presented that, however circumstantial it might be, it was none the
less so complete and so convincing, that the fate of the prisoner was
sealed, unless something quite unexpected should be disclosed by the
defence.  It was three o'clock when the prosecution closed.  At
half-past four, when the court rose, a new and unlooked-for development
had occurred.  I extract the incident, or part of it, from the journal
which I have already mentioned, omitting the preliminary observations
of the counsel.


Considerable sensation was caused in the crowded court when the first
witness called for the defence proved to be Miss Frances Morton, the
sister of the prisoner.  Our readers will remember that the young lady
had been engaged to Dr. Lana, and that it was his anger over the sudden
termination of this engagement which was thought to have driven her
brother to the perpetration of this crime.  Miss Morton had not,
however, been directly implicated in the case in any way, either at the
inquest or at the police-court proceedings, and her appearance as the
leading witness for the defence came as a surprise upon the public.

Miss Frances Morton, who was a tall and handsome brunette, gave her
evidence in a low but clear voice, though it was evident throughout
that she was suffering from extreme emotion.  She alluded to her
engagement to the doctor, touched briefly upon its termination, which
was due, she said, to personal matters connected with his family, and
surprised the court by asserting that she had always considered her
brother's resentment to be unreasonable and intemperate.  In answer to
a direct question from her counsel, she replied that she did not feel
that she had any grievance whatever against Dr. Lana, and that in her
opinion he had acted in a perfectly honourable manner.  Her brother, on
an insufficient knowledge of the facts, had taken another view, and she
was compelled to acknowledge that, in spite of her entreaties, he had
uttered threats of personal violence against the doctor, and had, upon
the evening of the tragedy, announced his intention of "having it out
with him."  She had done her best to bring him to a more reasonable
frame of mind, but he was very headstrong where his emotions or
prejudices were concerned.

Up to this point the young lady's evidence had appeared to make against
the prisoner rather than in his favour.  The questions of her counsel,
however, soon put a very different light upon the matter, and disclosed
an unexpected line of defence.

Mr. Humphrey:  Do you believe your brother to be guilty of this crime?

The Judge:  I cannot permit that question, Mr. Humphrey.  We are here
to decide upon questions of fact--not of belief.

Mr. Humphrey:  Do you know that your brother is not guilty of the death
of Doctor Lana?

Miss Morton:  Yes.

Mr. Humphrey:  How do you know it?

Miss Morton:  Because Dr. Lana is not dead.

There followed a prolonged sensation in court, which interrupted the
examination of the witness.

Mr. Humphrey:  And how do you know, Miss Morton, that Dr. Lana is not
dead?

Miss Morton:  Because I have received a letter from him since the date
of his supposed death.

Mr. Humphrey:  Have you this letter?

Miss Morton:  Yes, but I should prefer not to show it.

Mr. Humphrey:  Have you the envelope?

Miss Morton:  Yes, it is here.

Mr. Humphrey:  What is the post-mark?

Miss Morton:  Liverpool.

Mr. Humphrey:  And the date?

Miss Morton:  June the 22nd.

Mr. Humphrey:  That being the day after his alleged death.  Are you
prepared to swear to this handwriting, Miss Morton?

Miss Morton:  Certainly.

Mr. Humphrey:  I am prepared to call six other witnesses, my lord, to
testify that this letter is in the writing of Doctor Lana.

The Judge:  Then you must call them tomorrow.

Mr. Porlock Carr (counsel for the prosecution): In the meantime, my
lord, we claim possession of this document, so that we may obtain
expert evidence as to how far it is an imitation of the handwriting of
the gentleman whom we still confidently assert to be deceased.  I need
not point out that the theory so unexpectedly sprung upon us may prove
to be a very obvious device adopted by the friends of the prisoner in
order to divert this inquiry.  I would draw attention to the fact that
the young lady must, according to her own account, have possessed this
letter during the proceedings at the inquest and at the police-court.
She desires us to believe that she permitted these to proceed, although
she held in her pocket evidence which would at any moment have brought
them to an end.

Mr. Humphrey.  Can you explain this, Miss Morton?

Miss Morton:  Dr. Lana desired his secret to be preserved.

Mr. Porlock Carr:  Then why have you made this public?

Miss Morton:  To save my brother.

A murmur of sympathy broke out in court, which was instantly suppressed
by the Judge.

The Judge:  Admitting this line of defence, it lies with you, Mr.
Humphrey, to throw a light upon who this man is whose body has been
recognized by so many friends and patients of Dr. Lana as being that of
the doctor himself.

A Juryman:  Has anyone up to now expressed any doubt about the matter?

Mr. Porlock Carr:  Not to my knowledge.

Mr. Humphrey:  We hope to make the matter clear.

The Judge:  Then the court adjourns until tomorrow.


This new development of the case excited the utmost interest among the
general public.  Press comment was prevented by the fact that the trial
was still undecided, but the question was everywhere argued as to how
far there could be truth in Miss Morton's declaration, and how far it
might be a daring ruse for the purpose of saving her brother.  The
obvious dilemma in which the missing doctor stood was that if by any
extraordinary chance he was not dead, then he must be held responsible
for the death of this unknown man, who resembled him so exactly, and
who was found in his study.  This letter which Miss Morton refused to
produce was possibly a confession of guilt, and she might find herself
in the terrible position of only being able to save her brother from
the gallows by the sacrifice of her former lover.  The court next
morning was crammed to overflowing, and a murmur of excitement passed
over it when Mr. Humphrey was observed to enter in a state of emotion,
which even his trained nerves could not conceal, and to confer with the
opposing counsel.  A few hurried words--words which left a look of
amazement upon Mr. Porlock Carr's face--passed between them, and then
the counsel for the defence, addressing the Judge, announced that, with
the consent of the prosecution, the young lady who had given evidence
upon the sitting before would not be recalled.


The Judge: But you appear, Mr. Humphrey, to have left matters in a very
unsatisfactory state.

Mr. Humphrey:  Perhaps, my lord, my next witness may help to clear them
up.

The Judge:  Then call your next witness.

Mr. Humphrey:  I call Dr. Aloysius Lana.

The learned counsel has made many telling remarks in his day, but he
has certainly never produced such a sensation with so short a sentence.
The court was simply stunned with amazement as the very man whose fate
had been the subject of so much contention appeared bodily before them
in the witness-box.  Those among the spectators who had known him at
Bishop's Crossing saw him now, gaunt and thin, with deep lines of care
upon his face.  But in spite of his melancholy bearing and despondent
expression, there were few who could say that they had ever seen a man
of more distinguished presence.  Bowing to the judge, he asked if he
might be allowed to make a statement, and having been duly informed
that whatever he said might be used against him, he bowed once more,
and proceeded:

"My wish," said he, "is to hold nothing back, but to tell with perfect
frankness all that occurred upon the night of the 21st of June.  Had I
known that the innocent had suffered, and that so much trouble had been
brought upon those whom I love best in the world, I should have come
forward long ago; but there were reasons which prevented these things
from coming to my ears.  It was my desire that an unhappy man should
vanish from the world which had known him, but I had not foreseen that
others would be affected by my actions.  Let me to the best of my
ability repair the evil which I have done.

"To anyone who is acquainted with the history of the Argentine Republic
the name of Lana is well known.  My father, who came of the best blood
of old Spain, filled all the highest offices of the State, and would
have been President but for his death in the riots of San Juan.  A
brilliant career might have been open to my twin brother Ernest and
myself had it not been for financial losses which made it necessary
that we should earn our own living.  I apologize, sir, if these details
appear to be irrelevant, but they are a necessary introduction to that
which is to follow.

"I had, as I have said, a twin brother named Ernest, whose resemblance
to me was so great that even when we were together people could see no
difference between us.  Down to the smallest detail we were exactly the
same.  As we grew older this likeness became less marked because our
expression was not the same, but with our features in repose the points
of difference were very slight.

"It does not become me to say too much of one who is dead, the more so
as he is my only brother, but I leave his character to those who knew
him best.  I will only say--for I HAVE to say it--that in my early
manhood I conceived a horror of him, and that I had good reason for the
aversion which filled me.  My own reputation suffered from his actions,
for our close resemblance caused me to be credited with many of them.
Eventually, in a peculiarly disgraceful business, he contrived to throw
the whole odium upon me in such a way that I was forced to leave the
Argentine for ever, and to seek a career in Europe.  The freedom from
his hated presence more than compensated me for the loss of my native
land.  I had enough money to defray my medical studies at Glasgow, and
I finally settled in practice at Bishop's Crossing, in the firm
conviction that in that remote Lancashire hamlet I should never hear of
him again.

"For years my hopes were fulfilled, and then at last he discovered me.
Some Liverpool man who visited Buenos Ayres put him upon my track.  He
had lost all his money, and he thought that he would come over and
share mine.  Knowing my horror of him, he rightly thought that I would
be willing to buy him off.  I received a letter from him saying that he
was coming.  It was at a crisis in my own affairs, and his arrival
might conceivably bring trouble, and even disgrace, upon some whom I
was especially bound to shield from anything of the kind.  I took steps
to insure that any evil which might come should fall on me only, and
that"--here he turned and looked at the prisoner--"was the cause of
conduct upon my part which has been too harshly judged.  My only motive
was to screen those who were dear to me from any possible connection
with scandal or disgrace.  That scandal and disgrace would come with my
brother was only to say that what had been would be again.

"My brother arrived himself one night not very long after my receipt of
the letter.  I was sitting in my study after the servants had gone to
bed, when I heard a footstep upon the gravel outside, and an instant
later I saw his face looking in at me through the window.  He was a
clean-shaven man like myself, and the resemblance between us was still
so great that, for an instant, I thought it was my own reflection in
the glass.  He had a dark patch over his eye, but our features were
absolutely the same.  Then he smiled in a sardonic way which had been a
trick of his from his boyhood, and I knew that he was the same brother
who had driven me from my native land, and brought disgrace upon what
had been an honourable name.  I went to the door and I admitted him.
That would be about ten o'clock that night.

"When he came into the glare of the lamp, I saw at once that he had
fallen upon very evil days.  He had walked from Liverpool, and he was
tired and ill.  I was quite shocked by the expression upon his face.
My medical knowledge told me that there was some serious internal
malady.  He had been drinking also, and his face was bruised as the
result of a scuffle which he had had with some sailors.  It was to
cover his injured eye that he wore this patch, which he removed when he
entered the room.  He was himself dressed in a pea-jacket and flannel
shirt, and his feet were bursting through his boots.  But his poverty
had only made him more savagely vindictive towards me.  His hatred rose
to the height of a mania. I had been rolling in money in England,
according to his account, while he had been starving in South America.
I cannot describe to you the threats which he uttered or the insults
which he poured upon me.  My impression is, that hardships and
debauchery had unhinged his reason.  He paced about the room like a
wild beast, demanding drink, demanding money, and all in the foulest
language. I am a hot-tempered man, but I thank God that I am able to
say that I remained master of myself, and that I never raised a hand
against him.  My coolness only irritated him the more.  He raved, he
cursed, he shook his fists in my face, and then suddenly a horrible
spasm passed over his features, he clapped his hand to his side, and
with a loud cry he fell in a heap at my feet.  I raised him up and
stretched him upon the sofa, but no answer came to my exclamations, and
the hand which I held in mine was cold and clammy.  His diseased heart
had broken down.  His own violence had killed him.

"For a long time I sat as if I were in some dreadful dream, staring at
the body of my brother.  I was aroused by the knocking of Mrs. Woods,
who had been disturbed by that dying cry.  I sent her away to bed.
Shortly afterwards a patient tapped at the surgery door, but as I took
no notice, he or she went off again. Slowly and gradually as I sat
there a plan was forming itself in my head in the curious automatic way
in which plans do form.  When I rose from my chair my future movements
were finally decided upon without my having been conscious of any
process of thought.  It was an instinct which irresistibly inclined me
towards one course.

"Ever since that change in my affairs to which I have alluded, Bishop's
Crossing had become hateful to me.  My plans of life had been ruined,
and I had met with hasty judgments and unkind treatment where I had
expected sympathy.  It is true that any danger of scandal from my
brother had passed away with his life; but still, I was sore about the
past, and felt that things could never be as they had been.  It may be
that I was unduly sensitive, and that I had not made sufficient
allowance for others, but my feelings were as I describe.  Any chance
of getting away from Bishop's Crossing and of everyone in it would be
most welcome to me.  And here was such a chance as I could never have
dared to hope for, a chance which would enable me to make a clean break
with the past.

"There was this dead man lying upon the sofa, so like me that save for
some little thickness and coarseness of the features there was no
difference at all.  No one had seen him come and no one would miss him.
We were both clean-shaven, and his hair was about the same length as my
own.  If I changed clothes with him, then Dr. Aloysius Lana would be
found lying dead in his study, and there would be an end of an
unfortunate fellow, and of a blighted career. There was plenty of ready
money in the room, and this I could carry away with me to help me to
start once more in some other land.  In my brother's clothes I could
walk by night unobserved as far as Liverpool, and in that great seaport
I would soon find some means of leaving the country.  After my lost
hopes, the humblest existence where I was unknown was far preferable,
in my estimation, to a practice, however successful, in Bishop's
Crossing, where at any moment I might come face to face with those whom
I should wish, if it were possible, to forget.  I determined to effect
the change.

"And I did so.  I will not go into particulars, for the recollection is
as painful as the experience; but in an hour my brother lay, dressed
down to the smallest detail in my clothes, while I slunk out by the
surgery door, and taking the back path which led across some fields, I
started off to make the best of my way to Liverpool, where I arrived
the same night.  My bag of money and a certain portrait were all I
carried out of the house, and I left behind me in my hurry the shade
which my brother had been wearing over his eye.  Everything else of his
I took with me.

"I give you my word, sir, that never for one instant did the idea occur
to me that people might think that I had been murdered, nor did I
imagine that anyone might be caused serious danger through this
stratagem by which I endeavoured to gain a fresh start in the world.
On the contrary, it was the thought of relieving others from the burden
of my presence which was always uppermost in my mind.  A sailing vessel
was leaving Liverpool that very day for Corunna, and in this I took my
passage, thinking that the voyage would give me time to recover my
balance, and to consider the future.  But before I left my resolution
softened.  I bethought me that there was one person in the world to
whom I would not cause an hour of sadness.  She would mourn me in her
heart, however harsh and unsympathetic her relatives might be.  She
understood and appreciated the motives upon which I had acted, and if
the rest of her family condemned me, she, at least, would not forget.
And so I sent her a note under the seal of secrecy to save her from a
baseless grief.  If under the pressure of events she broke that seal,
she has my entire sympathy and forgiveness.

"It was only last night that I returned to England, and during all this
time I have heard nothing of the sensation which my supposed death had
caused, nor of the accusation that Mr. Arthur Morton had been concerned
in it.  It was in a late evening paper that I read an account of the
proceedings of yesterday, and I have come this morning as fast as an
express train could bring me to testify to the truth."

Such was the remarkable statement of Dr. Aloysius Lana which brought
the trial to a sudden termination.  A subsequent investigation
corroborated it to the extent of finding out the vessel in which his
brother Ernest Lana had come over from South America.  The ship's
doctor was able to testify that he had complained of a weak heart
during the voyage, and that his symptoms were consistent with such a
death as was described.

As to Dr. Aloysius Lana, he returned to the village from which he had
made so dramatic a disappearance, and a complete reconciliation was
effected between him and the young squire, the latter having
acknowledged that he had entirely misunderstood the other's motives in
withdrawing from his engagement.  That another reconciliation followed
may be judged from a notice extracted from a prominent column in the
Morning Post:


"A marriage was solemnized upon September 19th, by the Rev. Stephen
Johnson, at the parish church of Bishop's Crossing, between Aloysius
Xavier Lana, son of Don Alfredo Lana, formerly Foreign Minister of the
Argentine Republic, and Frances Morton, only daughter of the late James
Morton, J.P., of Leigh Hall, Bishop's Crossing, Lancashire."



The Jew's Breastplate

My particular friend, Ward Mortimer, was one of the best men of his day
at everything connected with Oriental archaeology.  He had written
largely upon the subject, he had lived two years in a tomb at Thebes,
while he excavated in the Valley of the Kings, and finally he had
created a considerable sensation by his exhumation of the alleged mummy
of Cleopatra in the inner room of the Temple of Horus, at Philae.  With
such a record at the age of thirty-one, it was felt that a considerable
career lay before him, and no one was surprised when he was elected to
the curatorship of the Belmore Street Museum, which carries with it the
lectureship at the Oriental College, and an income which has sunk with
the fall in land, but which still remains at that ideal sum which is
large enough to encourage an investigator, but not so large as to
enervate him.

There was only one reason which made Ward Mortimer's position a little
difficult at the Belmore Street Museum, and that was the extreme
eminence of the man whom he had to succeed.  Professor Andreas was a
profound scholar and a man of European reputation. His lectures were
frequented by students from every part of the world, and his admirable
management of the collection intrusted to his care was a commonplace in
all learned societies.  There was, therefore, considerable surprise
when, at the age of fifty-five, he suddenly resigned his position and
retired from those duties which had been both his livelihood and his
pleasure.  He and his daughter left the comfortable suite of rooms
which had formed his official residence in connection with the museum,
and my friend, Mortimer, who was a bachelor, took up his quarters there.

On hearing of Mortimer's appointment Professor Andreas had written him
a very kindly and flattering congratulatory letter.  I was actually
present at their first meeting, and I went with Mortimer round the
museum when the Professor showed us the admirable collection which he
had cherished so long.  The Professor's beautiful daughter and a young
man, Captain Wilson, who was, as I understood, soon to be her husband,
accompanied us in our inspection.  There were fifteen rooms, but the
Babylonian, the Syrian, and the central hall, which contained the
Jewish and Egyptian collection, were the finest of all.  Professor
Andreas was a quiet, dry, elderly man, with a clean-shaven face and an
impassive manner, but his dark eyes sparkled and his features quickened
into enthusiastic life as he pointed out to us the rarity and the
beauty of some of his specimens.  His hand lingered so fondly over
them, that one could read his pride in them and the grief in his heart
now that they were passing from his care into that of another.

He had shown us in turn his mummies, his papyri, his rare scarabs, his
inscriptions, his Jewish relics, and his duplication of the famous
seven-branched candlestick of the Temple, which was brought to Rome by
Titus, and which is supposed by some to be lying at this instant in the
bed of the Tiber.  Then he approached a case which stood in the very
centre of the hall, and he looked down through the glass with reverence
in his attitude and manner.

"This is no novelty to an expert like yourself, Mr. Mortimer," said he;
"but I daresay that your friend, Mr. Jackson, will be interested to see
it."

Leaning over the case I saw an object, some five inches square, which
consisted of twelve precious stones in a framework of gold, with golden
hooks at two of the corners.  The stones were all varying in sort and
colour, but they were of the same size.  Their shapes, arrangement, and
gradation of tint made me think of a box of water-colour paints.  Each
stone had some hieroglyphic scratched upon its surface.

"You have heard, Mr. Jackson, of the urim and thummim?"

I had heard the term, but my idea of its meaning was exceedingly vague.

"The urim and thummim was a name given to the jewelled plate which lay
upon the breast of the high priest of the Jews.  They had a very
special feeling of reverence for it--something of the feeling which an
ancient Roman might have for the Sibylline books in the Capitol.  There
are, as you see, twelve magnificent stones, inscribed with mystical
characters.  Counting from the left-hand top corner, the stones are
carnelian, peridot, emerald, ruby, lapis lazuli, onyx, sapphire, agate,
amethyst, topaz, beryl, and jasper."

I was amazed at the variety and beauty of the stones.

"Has the breastplate any particular history?" I asked.

"It is of great age and of immense value," said Professor Andreas.
"Without being able to make an absolute assertion, we have many reasons
to think that it is possible that it may be the original urim and
thummim of Solomon's Temple.  There is certainly nothing so fine in any
collection in Europe.  My friend, Captain Wilson, here, is a practical
authority upon precious stones, and he would tell you how pure these
are."

Captain Wilson, a man with a dark, hard, incisive face, was standing
beside his fiancee at the other side of the case.

"Yes," said he, curtly, "I have never seen finer stones."

"And the gold-work is also worthy of attention.  The ancients excelled
in----"--he was apparently about to indicate the setting of the stones,
when Captain Wilson interrupted him.

"You will see a finer example of their gold-work in this candlestick,"
said he, turning to another table, and we all joined him in his
admiration of its embossed stem and delicately ornamented branches.
Altogether it was an interesting and a novel experience to have objects
of such rarity explained by so great an expert; and when, finally,
Professor Andreas finished our inspection by formally handing over the
precious collection to the care of my friend, I could not help pitying
him and envying his successor whose life was to pass in so pleasant a
duty.  Within a week, Ward Mortimer was duly installed in his new set
of rooms, and had become the autocrat of the Belmore Street Museum.

About a fortnight afterwards my friend gave a small dinner to half a
dozen bachelor friends to celebrate his promotion.  When his guests
were departing he pulled my sleeve and signalled to me that he wished
me to remain.

"You have only a few hundred yards to go," said he--I was living in
chambers in the Albany.  "You may as well stay and have a quiet cigar
with me.  I very much want your advice."

I relapsed into an arm-chair and lit one of his excellent Matronas.
When he had returned from seeing the last of his guests out, he drew a
letter from his dress-jacket and sat down opposite to me.

"This is an anonymous letter which I received this morning," said he.
"I want to read it to you and to have your advice."

"You are very welcome to it for what it is worth."

"This is how the note runs:  'Sir,--I should strongly advise you to
keep a very careful watch over the many valuable things which are
committed to your charge.  I do not think that the present system of a
single watchman is sufficient.  Be upon your guard, or an irreparable
misfortune may occur.'"

"Is that all?"

"Yes, that is all."

"Well," said I, "it is at least obvious that it was written by one of
the limited number of people who are aware that you have only one
watchman at night."

Ward Mortimer handed me the note, with a curious smile.  "Have you an
eye for handwriting?" said he.  "Now, look at this!"  He put another
letter in front of me.  "Look at the c in 'congratulate' and the c in
'committed.'  Look at the capital I.  Look at the trick of putting in a
dash instead of a stop!"

"They are undoubtedly from the same hand--with some attempt at disguise
in the case of this first one."

"The second," said Ward Mortimer, "is the letter of congratulation
which was written to me by Professor Andreas upon my obtaining my
appointment."

I stared at him in amazement.  Then I turned over the letter in my
hand, and there, sure enough, was "Martin Andreas" signed upon the
other side.  There could be no doubt, in the mind of anyone who had the
slightest knowledge of the science of graphology, that the Professor
had written an anonymous letter, warning his successor against thieves.
It was inexplicable, but it was certain.

"Why should he do it?" I asked.

"Precisely what I should wish to ask you.  If he had any such
misgivings, why could he not come and tell me direct?"

"Will you speak to him about it?"

"There again I am in doubt.  He might choose to deny that he wrote it."

"At any rate," said I, "this warning is meant in a friendly spirit, and
I should certainly act upon it.  Are the present precautions enough to
insure you against robbery?"

"I should have thought so.  The public are only admitted from ten till
five, and there is a guardian to every two rooms.  He stands at the
door between them, and so commands them both."

"But at night?"

"When the public are gone, we at once put up the great iron shutters,
which are absolutely burglar-proof.  The watchman is a capable fellow.
He sits in the lodge, but he walks round every three hours.  We keep
one electric light burning in each room all night."

"It is difficult to suggest anything more--short of keeping your day
watches all night."

"We could not afford that."

"At least, I should communicate with the police, and have a special
constable put on outside in Belmore Street," said I.  "As to the
letter, if the writer wishes to be anonymous, I think he has a right to
remain so.  We must trust to the future to show some reason for the
curious course which he has adopted."

So we dismissed the subject, but all that night after my return to my
chambers I was puzzling my brain as to what possible motive Professor
Andreas could have for writing an anonymous warning letter to his
successor--for that the writing was his was as certain to me as if I
had seen him actually doing it.  He foresaw some danger to the
collection.  Was it because he foresaw it that he abandoned his charge
of it?  But if so, why should he hesitate to warn Mortimer in his own
name?  I puzzled and puzzled until at last I fell into a troubled
sleep, which carried me beyond my usual hour of rising.

I was aroused in a singular and effective method, for about nine
o'clock my friend Mortimer rushed into my room with an expression of
consternation upon his face.  He was usually one of the most tidy men
of my acquaintance, but now his collar was undone at one end, his tie
was flying, and his hat at the back of his head.  I read his whole
story in his frantic eyes.

"The museum has been robbed!" I cried, springing up in bed.

"I fear so!  Those jewels!  The jewels of the urim and thummim!" he
gasped, for he was out of breath with running.  "I'm going on to the
police-station.  Come to the museum as soon as you can, Jackson!
Good-bye!"  He rushed distractedly out of the room, and I heard him
clatter down the stairs.

I was not long in following his directions, but I found when I arrived
that he had already returned with a police inspector, and another
elderly gentleman, who proved to be Mr. Purvis, one of the partners of
Morson and Company, the well-known diamond merchants. As an expert in
stones he was always prepared to advise the police. They were grouped
round the case in which the breastplate of the Jewish priest had been
exposed.  The plate had been taken out and laid upon the glass top of
the case, and the three heads were bent over it.

"It is obvious that it has been tampered with," said Mortimer. "It
caught my eye the moment that I passed through the room this morning.
I examined it yesterday evening, so that it is certain that this has
happened during the night."

It was, as he had said, obvious that someone had been at work upon it.
The settings of the uppermost row of four stones--the carnelian,
peridot, emerald, and ruby--were rough and jagged as if someone had
scraped all round them.  The stones were in their places, but the
beautiful gold-work which we had admired only a few days before had
been very clumsily pulled about.

"It looks to me," said the police inspector, "as if someone had been
trying to take out the stones."

"My fear is," said Mortimer, "that he not only tried, but succeeded.  I
believe these four stones to be skilful imitations which have been put
in the place of the originals."

The same suspicion had evidently been in the mind of the expert, for he
had been carefully examining the four stones with the aid of a lens.
He now submitted them to several tests, and finally turned cheerfully
to Mortimer.

"I congratulate you, sir," said he, heartily.  "I will pledge my
reputation that all four of these stones are genuine, and of a most
unusual degree of purity."

The colour began to come back to my poor friend's frightened face, and
he drew a long breath of relief.

"Thank God!" he cried.  "Then what in the world did the thief want?"

"Probably he meant to take the stones, but was interrupted."

"In that case one would expect him to take them out one at a time, but
the setting of each of these has been loosened, and yet the stones are
all here."

"It is certainly most extraordinary," said the inspector.  "I never
remember a case like it.  Let us see the watchman."

The commissionaire was called--a soldierly, honest-faced man, who
seemed as concerned as Ward Mortimer at the incident.

"No, sir, I never heard a sound," he answered, in reply to the
questions of the inspector.  "I made my rounds four times, as usual,
but I saw nothing suspicious.  I've been in my position ten years, but
nothing of the kind has ever occurred before."

"No thief could have come through the windows?"

"Impossible, sir."

"Or passed you at the door?"

"No, sir; I never left my post except when I walked my rounds."

"What other openings are there in the museum?"

"There is the door into Mr. Ward Mortimer's private rooms."

"That is locked at night," my friend explained, "and in order to reach
it anyone from the street would have to open the outside door as well."

"Your servants?"

"Their quarters are entirely separate."

"Well, well," said the inspector, "this is certainly very obscure.
However, there has been no harm done, according to Mr. Purvis."

"I will swear that those stones are genuine."

"So that the case appears to be merely one of malicious damage. But
none the less, I should be very glad to go carefully round the
premises, and to see if we can find any trace to show us who your
visitor may have been."

His investigation, which lasted all the morning, was careful and
intelligent, but it led in the end to nothing.  He pointed out to us
that there were two possible entrances to the museum which we had not
considered.  The one was from the cellars by a trap-door opening in the
passage.  The other through a skylight from the lumber-room,
overlooking that very chamber to which the intruder had penetrated.  As
neither the cellar nor the lumber-room could be entered unless the
thief was already within the locked doors, the matter was not of any
practical importance, and the dust of cellar and attic assured us that
no one had used either one or the other.  Finally, we ended as we
began, without the slightest clue as to how, why, or by whom the
setting of these four jewels had been tampered with.

There remained one course for Mortimer to take, and he took it. Leaving
the police to continue their fruitless researches, he asked me to
accompany him that afternoon in a visit to Professor Andreas. He took
with him the two letters, and it was his intention to openly tax his
predecessor with having written the anonymous warning, and to ask him
to explain the fact that he should have anticipated so exactly that
which had actually occurred.  The Professor was living in a small villa
in Upper Norwood, but we were informed by the servant that he was away
from home.  Seeing our disappointment, she asked us if we should like
to see Miss Andreas, and showed us into the modest drawing-room.

I have mentioned incidentally that the Professor's daughter was a very
beautiful girl.  She was a blonde, tall and graceful, with a skin of
that delicate tint which the French call "mat," the colour of old
ivory, or of the lighter petals of the sulphur rose. I was shocked,
however, as she entered the room to see how much she had changed in the
last fortnight.  Her young face was haggard and her bright eyes heavy
with trouble.

"Father has gone to Scotland," she said.  "He seems to be tired, and
has had a good deal to worry him.  He only left us yesterday."

"You look a little tired yourself, Miss Andreas," said my friend.

"I have been so anxious about father."

"Can you give me his Scotch address?"

"Yes, he is with his brother, the Rev. David Andreas, 1, Arran Villas,
Ardrossan."

Ward Mortimer made a note of the address, and we left without saying
anything as to the object of our visit.  We found ourselves in Belmore
Street in the evening in exactly the same position in which we had been
in the morning.  Our only clue was the Professor's letter, and my
friend had made up his mind to start for Ardrossan next day, and to get
to the bottom of the anonymous letter, when a new development came to
alter our plans.

Very early on the following morning I was aroused from my sleep by a
tap upon my bedroom door.  It was a messenger with a note from Mortimer.

"Do come round," it said; "the matter is becoming more and more
extraordinary."

When I obeyed his summons I found him pacing excitedly up and down the
central room, while the old soldier who guarded the premises stood with
military stiffness in a corner.

"My dear Jackson," he cried, "I am so delighted that you have come, for
this is a most inexplicable business."

"What has happened, then?"

He waved his hand towards the case which contained the breastplate.

"Look at it," said he.

I did so, and could not restrain a cry of surprise.  The setting of the
middle row of precious stones had been profaned in the same manner as
the upper ones.  Of the twelve jewels eight had been now tampered with
in this singular fashion.  The setting of the lower four was neat and
smooth.  The others jagged and irregular.

"Have the stones been altered?" I asked.

"No, I am certain that these upper four are the same which the expert
pronounced to be genuine, for I observed yesterday that little
discoloration on the edge of the emerald.  Since they have not
extracted the upper stones, there is no reason to think the lower have
been transposed.  You say that you heard nothing, Simpson?"

"No, sir," the commissionaire answered.  "But when I made my round
after daylight I had a special look at these stones, and I saw at once
that someone had been meddling with them.  Then I called you, sir, and
told you.  I was backwards and forwards all night, and I never saw a
soul or heard a sound."

"Come up and have some breakfast with me," said Mortimer, and he took
me into his own chambers.--"Now, what DO you think of this, Jackson?"
he asked.

"It is the most objectless, futile, idiotic business that ever I heard
of.  It can only be the work of a monomaniac."

"Can you put forward any theory?"

A curious idea came into my head.  "This object is a Jewish relic of
great antiquity and sanctity," said I.  "How about the anti-Semitic
movement?  Could one conceive that a fanatic of that way of thinking
might desecrate----"

"No, no, no!" cried Mortimer.  "That will never do!  Such a man might
push his lunacy to the length of destroying a Jewish relic, but why on
earth should he nibble round every stone so carefully that he can only
do four stones in a night?  We must have a better solution than that,
and we must find it for ourselves, for I do not think that our
inspector is likely to help us.  First of all, what do you think of
Simpson, the porter?"

"Have you any reason to suspect him?"

"Only that he is the one person on the premises."

"But why should he indulge in such wanton destruction?  Nothing has
been taken away.  He has no motive."

"Mania?"

"No, I will swear to his sanity."

"Have you any other theory?"

"Well, yourself, for example.  You are not a somnambulist, by any
chance?"

"Nothing of the sort, I assure you."

"Then I give it up."

"But I don't--and I have a plan by which we will make it all clear."

"To visit Professor Andreas?"

"No, we shall find our solution nearer than Scotland.  I will tell you
what we shall do.  You know that skylight which overlooks the central
hall?  We will leave the electric lights in the hall, and we will keep
watch in the lumber-room, you and I, and solve the mystery for
ourselves.  If our mysterious visitor is doing four stones at a time,
he has four still to do, and there is every reason to think that he
will return tonight and complete the job."

"Excellent!" I cried.

"We will keep our own secret, and say nothing either to the police or
to Simpson.  Will you join me?"

"With the utmost pleasure," said I; and so it was agreed.

It was ten o'clock that night when I returned to the Belmore Street
Museum.  Mortimer was, as I could see, in a state of suppressed nervous
excitement, but it was still too early to begin our vigil, so we
remained for an hour or so in his chambers, discussing all the
possibilities of the singular business which we had met to solve.  At
last the roaring stream of hansom cabs and the rush of hurrying feet
became lower and more intermittent as the pleasure-seekers passed on
their way to their stations or their homes.  It was nearly twelve when
Mortimer led the way to the lumber-room which overlooked the central
hall of the museum.

He had visited it during the day, and had spread some sacking so that
we could lie at our ease, and look straight down into the museum.  The
skylight was of unfrosted glass, but was so covered with dust that it
would be impossible for anyone looking up from below to detect that he
was overlooked.  We cleared a small piece at each corner, which gave us
a complete view of the room beneath us.  In the cold white light of the
electric lamps everything stood out hard and clear, and I could see the
smallest detail of the contents of the various cases.

Such a vigil is an excellent lesson, since one has no choice but to
look hard at those objects which we usually pass with such half-hearted
interest.  Through my little peep hole I employed the hours in studying
every specimen, from the huge mummy-case which leaned against the wall
to those very jewels which had brought us there, gleaming and sparkling
in their glass case immediately beneath us.  There was much precious
gold-work and many valuable stones scattered through the numerous
cases, but those wonderful twelve which made up the urim and thummim
glowed and burned with a radiance which far eclipsed the others.  I
studied in turn the tomb-pictures of Sicara, the friezes from Karnak,
the statues of Memphis, and the inscriptions of Thebes, but my eyes
would always come back to that wonderful Jewish relic, and my mind to
the singular mystery which surrounded it.  I was lost in the thought of
it when my companion suddenly drew his breath sharply in, and seized my
arm in a convulsive grip.  At the same instant I saw what it was which
had excited him.

I have said that against the wall--on the right-hand side of the
doorway (the right-hand side as we looked at it, but the left as one
entered)--there stood a large mummy-case.  To our unutterable amazement
it was slowly opening.  Gradually, gradually the lid was swinging back,
and the black slit which marked the opening was becoming wider and
wider.  So gently and carefully was it done that the movement was
almost imperceptible.  Then, as we breathlessly watched it, a white
thin hand appeared at the opening, pushing back the painted lid, then
another hand, and finally a face--a face which was familiar to us both,
that of Professor Andreas.  Stealthily he slunk out of the mummy-case,
like a fox stealing from its burrow, his head turning incessantly to
left and to right, stepping, then pausing, then stepping again, the
very image of craft and of caution.  Once some sound in the street
struck him motionless, and he stood listening, with his ear turned,
ready to dart back to the shelter behind him.  Then he crept onwards
again upon tiptoe, very, very softly and slowly, until he had reached
the case in the centre of the room.  There he took a bunch of keys from
his pocket, unlocked the case, took out the Jewish breastplate, and,
laying it upon the glass in front of him, began to work upon it with
some sort of small, glistening tool.  He was so directly underneath us
that his bent head covered his work, but we could guess from the
movement of his hand that he was engaged in finishing the strange
disfigurement which he had begun.

I could realize from the heavy breathing of my companion, and the
twitchings of the hand which still clutched my wrist, the furious
indignation which filled his heart as he saw this vandalism in the
quarter of all others where he could least have expected it. He, the
very man who a fortnight before had reverently bent over this unique
relic, and who had impressed its antiquity and its sanctity upon us,
was now engaged in this outrageous profanation. It was impossible,
unthinkable--and yet there, in the white glare of the electric light
beneath us, was that dark figure with the bent grey head, and the
twitching elbow.  What inhuman hypocrisy, what hateful depth of malice
against his successor must underlie these sinister nocturnal labours.
It was painful to think of and dreadful to watch.  Even I, who had none
of the acute feelings of a virtuoso, could not bear to look on and see
this deliberate mutilation of so ancient a relic.  It was a relief to
me when my companion tugged at my sleeve as a signal that I was to
follow him as he softly crept out of the room.  It was not until we
were within his own quarters that he opened his lips, and then I saw by
his agitated face how deep was his consternation.

"The abominable Goth!" he cried.  "Could you have believed it?"

"It is amazing."

"He is a villain or a lunatic--one or the other.  We shall very soon
see which.  Come with me, Jackson, and we shall get to the bottom of
this black business."

A door opened out of the passage which was the private entrance from
his rooms into the museum.  This he opened softly with his key, having
first kicked off his shoes, an example which I followed.  We crept
together through room after room, until the large hall lay before us,
with that dark figure still stooping and working at the central case.
With an advance as cautious as his own we closed in upon him, but
softly as we went we could not take him entirely unawares.  We were
still a dozen yards from him when he looked round with a start, and
uttering a husky cry of terror, ran frantically down the museum.

"Simpson!  Simpson!" roared Mortimer, and far away down the vista of
electric lighted doors we saw the stiff figure of the old soldier
suddenly appear.  Professor Andreas saw him also, and stopped running,
with a gesture of despair.  At the same instant we each laid a hand
upon his shoulder.

"Yes, yes, gentlemen," he panted, "I will come with you.  To your room,
Mr. Ward Mortimer, if you please!  I feel that I owe you an
explanation."

My companion's indignation was so great that I could see that he dared
not trust himself to reply.  We walked on each side of the old
Professor, the astonished commissionaire bringing up the rear. When we
reached the violated case, Mortimer stopped and examined the
breastplate.  Already one of the stones of the lower row had had its
setting turned back in the same manner as the others.  My friend held
it up and glanced furiously at his prisoner.

"How could you!" he cried.  "How could you!"

"It is horrible--horrible!" said the Professor.  "I don't wonder at
your feelings.  Take me to your room."

"But this shall not be left exposed!" cried Mortimer.  He picked the
breastplate up and carried it tenderly in his hand, while I walked
beside the Professor, like a policeman with a malefactor.  We passed
into Mortimer's chambers, leaving the amazed old soldier to understand
matters as best he could.  The Professor sat down in Mortimer's
arm-chair, and turned so ghastly a colour that for the instant all our
resentment was changed to concern.  A stiff glass of brandy brought the
life back to him once more.

"There, I am better now!" said he.  "These last few days have been too
much for me.  I am convinced that I could not stand it any longer.  It
is a nightmare--a horrible nightmare--that I should be arrested as a
burglar in what has been for so long my own museum. And yet I cannot
blame you.  You could not have done otherwise.  My hope always was that
I should get it all over before I was detected.  This would have been
my last night's work."

"How did you get in?" asked Mortimer.

"By taking a very great liberty with your private door.  But the object
justified it.  The object justified everything.  You will not be angry
when you know everything--at least, you will not be angry with me.  I
had a key to your side door and also to the museum door.  I did not
give them up when I left.  And so you see it was not difficult for me
to let myself into the museum.  I used to come in early before the
crowd had cleared from the street. Then I hid myself in the mummy-case,
and took refuge there whenever Simpson came round.  I could always hear
him coming.  I used to leave in the same way as I came."

"You ran a risk."

"I had to."

"But why?  What on earth was your object--YOU to do a thing like that!"
Mortimer pointed reproachfully at the plate which lay before him on the
table.

"I could devise no other means.  I thought and thought, but there was
no alternate except a hideous public scandal, and a private sorrow
which would have clouded our lives.  I acted for the best, incredible
as it may seem to you, and I only ask your attention to enable me to
prove it."

"I will hear what you have to say before I take any further steps,"
said Mortimer, grimly.

"I am determined to hold back nothing, and to take you both completely
into my confidence.  I will leave it to your own generosity how far you
will use the facts with which I supply you."

"We have the essential facts already."

"And yet you understand nothing.  Let me go back to what passed a few
weeks ago, and I will make it all clear to you.  Believe me that what I
say is the absolute and exact truth.

"You have met the person who calls himself Captain Wilson.  I say
'calls himself' because I have reason now to believe that it is not his
correct name.  It would take me too long if I were to describe all the
means by which he obtained an introduction to me and ingratiated
himself into my friendship and the affection of my daughter.  He
brought letters from foreign colleagues which compelled me to show him
some attention.  And then, by his own attainments, which are
considerable, he succeeded in making himself a very welcome visitor at
my rooms.  When I learned that my daughter's affections had been gained
by him, I may have thought it premature, but I certainly was not
surprised, for he had a charm of manner and of conversation which would
have made him conspicuous in any society.

"He was much interested in Oriental antiquities, and his knowledge of
the subject justified his interest.  Often when he spent the evening
with us he would ask permission to go down into the museum and have an
opportunity of privately inspecting the various specimens.  You can
imagine that I, as an enthusiast, was in sympathy with such a request,
and that I felt no surprise at the constancy of his visits.  After his
actual engagement to Elise, there was hardly an evening which he did
not pass with us, and an hour or two were generally devoted to the
museum.  He had the free run of the place, and when I have been away
for the evening I had no objection to his doing whatever he wished
here.  This state of things was only terminated by the fact of my
resignation of my official duties and my retirement to Norwood, where I
hoped to have the leisure to write a considerable work which I had
planned.

"It was immediately after this--within a week or so--that I first
realized the true nature and character of the man whom I had so
imprudently introduced into my family.  The discovery came to me
through letters from my friends abroad, which showed me that his
introductions to me had been forgeries.  Aghast at the revelation, I
asked myself what motive this man could originally have had in
practising this elaborate deception upon me.  I was too poor a man for
any fortune-hunter to have marked me down.  Why, then, had he come?  I
remembered that some of the most precious gems in Europe had been under
my charge, and I remembered also the ingenious excuses by which this
man had made himself familiar with the cases in which they were kept.
He was a rascal who was planning some gigantic robbery.  How could I,
without striking my own daughter, who was infatuated about him, prevent
him from carrying out any plan which he might have formed?  My device
was a clumsy one, and yet I could think of nothing more effective.  If
I had written a letter under my own name, you would naturally have
turned to me for details which I did not wish to give.  I resorted to
an anonymous letter, begging you to be upon your guard.

"I may tell you that my change from Belmore Street to Norwood had not
affected the visits of this man, who had, I believe, a real and
overpowering affection for my daughter.  As to her, I could not have
believed that any woman could be so completely under the influence of a
man as she was.  His stronger nature seemed to entirely dominate her.
I had not realized how far this was the case, or the extent of the
confidence which existed between them, until that very evening when his
true character for the first time was made clear to me.  I had given
orders that when he called he should be shown into my study instead of
to the drawing-room. There I told him bluntly that I knew all about
him, that I had taken steps to defeat his designs, and that neither I
nor my daughter desired ever to see him again.  I added that I thanked
God that I had found him out before he had time to harm those precious
objects which it had been the work of my life-time to protect.

"He was certainly a man of iron nerve.  He took my remarks without a
sign either of surprise or of defiance, but listened gravely and
attentively until I had finished.  Then he walked across the room
without a word and struck the bell.

"'Ask Miss Andreas to be so kind as to step this way,' said he to the
servant.

"My daughter entered, and the man closed the door behind her. Then he
took her hand in his.

"'Elise,' said he, 'your father has just discovered that I am a
villain.  He knows now what you knew before.'

"She stood in silence, listening.

"'He says that we are to part for ever,' said he.

"She did not withdraw her hand.

"'Will you be true to me, or will you remove the last good influence
which is ever likely to come into my life?'

"'John,' she cried, passionately.  'I will never abandon you! Never,
never, not if the whole world were against you.'

"In vain I argued and pleaded with her.  It was absolutely useless.
Her whole life was bound up in this man before me.  My daughter,
gentlemen, is all that I have left to love, and it filled me with agony
when I saw how powerless I was to save her from her ruin.  My
helplessness seemed to touch this man who was the cause of my trouble.

"'It may not be as bad as you think, sir,' said he, in his quiet,
inflexible way.  'I love Elise with a love which is strong enough to
rescue even one who has such a record as I have.  It was but yesterday
that I promised her that never again in my whole life would I do a
thing of which she should be ashamed.  I have made up my mind to it,
and never yet did I make up my mind to a thing which I did not do.'

"He spoke with an air which carried conviction with it.  As he
concluded he put his hand into his pocket and he drew out a small
cardboard box.

"'I am about to give you a proof of my determination,' said he. 'This,
Elise, shall be the first-fruits of your redeeming influence over me.
You are right, sir, in thinking that I had designs upon the jewels in
your possession.  Such ventures have had a charm for me, which depended
as much upon the risk run as upon the value of the prize.  Those famous
and antique stones of the Jewish priest were a challenge to my daring
and my ingenuity.  I determined to get them.'

"'I guessed as much.'

"'There was only one thing that you did not guess.'

"'And what is that?'

"'That I got them.  They are in this box.'

"He opened the box, and tilted out the contents upon the corner of my
desk.  My hair rose and my flesh grew cold as I looked. There were
twelve magnificent square stones engraved with mystical characters.
There could be no doubt that they were the jewels of the urim and
thummim.

"'Good God!' I cried.  'How have you escaped discovery?'

"'By the substitution of twelve others, made especially to my order, in
which the originals are so carefully imitated that I defy the eye to
detect the difference.'

"'Then the present stones are false?' I cried.

"'They have been for some weeks.'

"We all stood in silence, my daughter white with emotion, but still
holding this man by the hand.

"'You see what I am capable of, Elise,' said he.

"'I see that you are capable of repentance and restitution,' she
answered.

"'Yes, thanks to your influence!  I leave the stones in your hands,
sir.  Do what you like about it.  But remember that whatever you do
against me, is done against the future husband of your only daughter.
You will hear from me soon again, Elise.  It is the last time that I
will ever cause pain to your tender heart,' and with these words he
left both the room and the house.

"My position was a dreadful one.  Here I was with these precious relics
in my possession, and how could I return them without a scandal and an
exposure?  I knew the depth of my daughter's nature too well to suppose
that I would ever be able to detach her from this man now that she had
entirely given him her heart.  I was not even sure how far it was right
to detach her if she had such an ameliorating influence over him.  How
could I expose him without injuring her--and how far was I justified in
exposing him when he had voluntarily put himself into my power?  I
thought and thought until at last I formed a resolution which may seem
to you to be a foolish one, and yet, if I had to do it again, I believe
it would be the best course open to me.

"My idea was to return the stones without anyone being the wiser.  With
my keys I could get into the museum at any time, and I was confident
that I could avoid Simpson, whose hours and methods were familiar to
me.  I determined to take no one into my confidence--not even my
daughter--whom I told that I was about to visit my brother in Scotland.
I wanted a free hand for a few nights, without inquiry as to my comings
and goings.  To this end I took a room in Harding Street that very
night, with an intimation that I was a Pressman, and that I should keep
very late hours.

"That night I made my way into the museum, and I replaced four of the
stones.  It was hard work, and took me all night.  When Simpson came
round I always heard his footsteps, and concealed myself in the
mummy-case.  I had some knowledge of gold-work, but was far less
skilful than the thief had been.  He had replaced the setting so
exactly that I defy anyone to see the difference.  My work was rude and
clumsy.  However, I hoped that the plate might not be carefully
examined, or the roughness of the setting observed, until my task was
done.  Next night I replaced four more stones.  And tonight I should
have finished my task had it not been for the unfortunate circumstance
which has caused me to reveal so much which I should have wished to
keep concealed.  I appeal to you, gentlemen, to your sense of honour
and of compassion, whether what I have told you should go any farther
or not.  My own happiness, my daughter's future, the hopes of this
man's regeneration, all depend upon your decision.

"Which is," said my friend, "that all is well that ends well and that
the whole matter ends here and at once.  Tomorrow the loose settings
shall be tightened by an expert goldsmith, and so passes the greatest
danger to which, since the destruction of the Temple, the urim and
thummim has been exposed.  Here is my hand, Professor Andreas, and I
can only hope that under such difficult circumstances I should have
carried myself as unselfishly and as well."

Just one footnote to this narrative.  Within a month Elise Andreas was
married to a man whose name, had I the indiscretion to mention it,
would appeal to my readers as one who is now widely and deservedly
honoured.  But if the truth were known that honour is due not to him,
but to the gentle girl who plucked him back when he had gone so far
down that dark road along which few return.

